Disenfranchisement in the United States has taken on many forms in recent years: voter ID laws and restrictions on early voting are just two examples. But restricting the voting rights of felons is one of the oldest practices on the books. And nowhere has it been more widespread than in Florida, possibly the one state where the phrase “every vote counts” consistently rings true. (See: Bush v. Gore, 2000; Obama v. Romney, 2012; Trump v. Clinton, 2016; Scott v. Nelson, 2018.)But Florida’s ex-felons got a reprieve on Tuesday. Almost two-thirds of residents who could and did vote on Nov. 6 elected to restore voting rights for those who couldn’t. It was one of the most far-reaching statewide results in this year’s midterms, one that could have lasting effects on how future elections play out in this pivotal state.“It’s a really important milestone just in the sheer number of people who will be re-enfranchised,” says Marc Meredith, an associate professor of political science at the University of Pennsylvania who studies felon voting rights.A dozen states deny voting rights to some or all convicts, even after they’ve fulfilled their prison, parole, or probation sentences, according to a 2016 report by The Sentencing Project, a non-profit criminal justice advocacy group. But Florida was by far the most prominent offender. Its disenfranchised felon population was the country’s largest, thanks to the state’s sizable number of prisoners and its relatively harsh sentencing guidelines.“Florida was the elephant in the room,” says Christopher Uggen, a University of Minnesota sociologist and a co-author of Locked Out: Felon Disenfranchisement and American Democracy.While the state has one of the biggest prison populations in the U.S., it has also convicted a disproportionate number of people of color. White people still make up the largest share of felons in Florida. But among African-Americans in the state, 20 percent have been disenfranchised because of a felony conviction compared with 9.2 percent of the overall population.Florida’s voting restrictions stem from some of the darker shadows of the Reconstruction Era, when Southern states often looked for ways to suppress black voters. In 1868, Florida’s Constitution took away felons’ right to vote, even making a crime like petty larceny a felony.Over the last couple decades, felons have unsuccessfully used class-action lawsuits to try to change the law in the court system. In 2007, Gov. Charlie Crist, then a Republican now a Democrat, revised the state’s clemency process and restored more than 150,000 residents’ voting rights. But his successor, Republican Rick Scott, dialed back that process. Under Scott’s administration, only 3,200 saw their voting rights restored.That left few options for Florida’s ex-felons other than going directly to the enfranchised themselves. “It was a tremendous victory,” Uggen says, especially for people “who had older criminal records that may date from the ’70s, ’80s, and ’90s who were really shut out of the electorate.”The result is a historic win for civil rights activists working to reform the criminal justice system, one that’s often stacked against people of color. But what does it mean for Florida’s future elections?For the last two decades, it seemed impossible to hold an election without Florida’s races being decided by the slimmest of margins. Look at Tuesday’s race for the U.S. Senate between Democrat Bill Nelson and Republican Rick Scott. As of Wednesday, the difference in the race was just 30,000 votes. Adding 1.5 million ex-felons to the rolls has the potential to sway those kinds of close races. But whether that happens will ultimately depend on two questions: Which way would they lean politically? And will they vote?Uggen estimates that 80 to 90 percent of Florida’s black ex-felons likely lean Democratic based on how similar populations have voted in other states and that the remaining 75 percent of the total ex-felon population breaks down evenly between Democratic and Republican voters. Uggen points to one study he conducted with NYU sociologist Jeffrey Manza, which estimated that Florida’s ex-felons would likely have voted for Democrat Al Gore over Republican George W. Bush in the 2000 presidential election by a margin of at least two to one, easily making up the 537-vote difference and giving Gore the state, and ultimately, the White House.Another study Uggen points to is a national survey from 2002, which found that “Democratic candidates would have received about 7 out of every 10 votes cast by the felons and ex-felons in 14 of the last 15 U.S. Senate election years.”“I wouldn’t say it’s a big victory for the Democratic party or portray it in partisan terms, but on balance, I think the outcome [of the ballot measure] will likely tilt Democratic to some degree,” Uggen says.The more pressing question might be whether ex-felons will vote at all. According to studies by the University of Pennsylvania’s Meredith and Harvard PhD candidate Michael Morse, in six other states that recently relaxed their voting rights laws, ex-felon turnout ranged from just 8 percent to 14 percent.Uggen, however, says he believes turnout could be higher in Florida because so many ex-felons have been integrated into society over decades and are more invested in their communities than newly released prisoners.Assuming turnout numbers and political preference follows similar patterns, Uggen says it’s reasonable to believe that if ex-felons had voted this week, they would have swayed the election toward Nelson, the Democratic incumbent. They could even have had an effect on the governor’s race, which Republican Ron DeSantis led over Democrat Andrew Gillum by 51,000 votes, as of Wednesday.Similarly, Meredith and Morse estimate that of the 1.5 million Floridians now eligible to vote, an estimated 102,000 would vote for Democrats, 54,000 would vote for Republicans, and 40,000 could go either away. The others likely wouldn’t vote.“It is those races that are so close that there could be a recount,” Meredith says. “That’s where re-enfranchisement could matter.”Three years ago, I up and moved to what could appropriately be called the middle of nowhere. I’d always lived in or near a major metropolitan area: I grew up in a busy Philadelphia suburb and went to college in New York. But when my partner’s company asked him to relocate somewhere significantly sleepier, I decided to tag along.In my corner of central Pennsylvania, I’m separated from most of my neighbors by sprawling cornfields. The local Dollar General is pretty much the only place to pick up ice cream or eggs after 8 p.m. The pizza joints and Chinese restaurants don’t deliver. There’s no Uber, though I did once see a car with a pink Lyft mustache in the windshield. It was so out of place that I took a picture.It took me a long time to get used to my rural surroundings, but there’s a lot I love about being here. I have backyard chickens and beehives and enough space to let my dogs wander. I never have to get out of bed to make sure the doors are locked, because even if they’re not, there’s nothing to worry about. At night, there are plenty of stars, and in the morning, a whole chorus of birds.While my move was kind of extreme, it falls within a crowded category: Across the United States, people are leaving cities for smaller towns and suburbs, and they’re all experiencing different versions of the same adjustment process. According to U.S. Census data, between 2010 and 2017, several major cities nationwide had negative net domestic migration, meaning that people moving out of these urban centers outnumbered people moving in from other parts of the country. In the New York metro area alone, 900,000 more people left than came in during that time period.Constantine Valhouli, co-founder and research director of real estate analytics firm NeighborhoodX, says the big-city shine that appeals to twentysomethings can start to wear off for those looking for more permanency.“Unless you own property — something very few people can afford to do in a place like New York City or San Francisco — you’re at the mercy of a landlord,” Valhouli says. “I think feeling like you’re never going to have any kind of ownership or be able to play at that level detaches people from the city in some way.”But leaving a city, especially if you’ve lived there for a long time, has its own unique challenges. “One of the first researchers of place attachment said part of who we are comes from where we are,” says Leila Scannell, a postdoctoral research fellow at Royal Roads University in Victoria, British Columbia, who studies the way place affects our identities and behaviors. “If you ask people to write down five things about themselves, 90 percent of the time, one of those things has to do with place.”Because attachment to place is so important, a significant move — like, say, from a vibrant metropolis to a sleepy suburb, or even a smaller city — can send you reeling. “When you lose a place you’re attached to, it can cause grief, disorientation, and longing for the past,” Scannell says. “Homesickness is real, and it can be difficult to navigate.” That’s even more true when your move comes with a major lifestyle adjustment.Which is why Valhouli suggests taking things slow. If you have some flexibility around the timing of your move, “Don’t commit without staying there for a while first,” he says. “Use Airbnb. Stay for a week in the spring and a week in the winter. See what it’s like year-round. If you jump right in, a move like this could be traumatic. Do your research first to make sure it isn’t.”Once you’ve made the leap, you can ease the transition by holding on to some specific aspects of your old life. “Bring as many traditions and elements of your former environment as you can along with you,” Scannell says, even if you have to tweak them to fit your new setting. If you had a windowsill garden at your previous place, for example, set up a new one with similar plants in your backyard. If you always stopped at the same coffee shop on your walk to work, find a similar go-to you can easily drive to. You can’t replicate the hustle and bustle of your old life, but smaller, more focused efforts may be enough.It also helps to cultivate hobbies that are better suited to your new location than they were to your old one. I love to hike with my dog, Olive, for instance, and I started to really fall in love with my adopted hometown when I realized it’s only a few miles from the Appalachian Trail. On days when I don’t feel like walking, I can have my kayak in the Schuylkill River in less than 30 minutes.“Connection to place based on activities is important to people,” Scannell says. “Get to know the unique parts of the place that make it special. Find out what you can do there that you can’t do anywhere else.”One of the most important parts of place attachment are your ties to people in your community. This is also one of the most challenging parts of a move — especially if you’re entering a new, smaller dating pool.Even making new friends can be tough. For the first few months after my move, I knew almost no one. When I started craving connection and friendship, I had to get creative. I signed up for group rock climbing lessons, auditioned for a community play, and asked cool-seeming girls at the gym on friend dates.“As tough as it can be to live in a city, there’s a certain effortlessness,” Valhouli says. “You can go for a stroll and find an art gallery or go to a lecture and meet people with similar interests. When you get into these small towns, you have to be more proactive. When your default is ‘there’s nothing going on,’ you have to work for it a little more,” whether the connections you’re seeking are romantic or platonic.One upside to a more limited social scene: Becoming a member of a tight-knit community, Valhouli says, could give you more of an opening to reshape the things you might not love about your new home. But, he cautions, don’t jump right in.“Don’t try to change things, at least not right away,” he says. “At first, just listen and learn. Find out what people are complaining about and what issues they get active over. It’s amazing what you’ll pick up after a year in a place if you don’t come in trying to be the big-city person with a lot of ideas.”In the meantime, if you’re having more trouble adjusting than you expected, Scannell has good news: One thing she’s learned from her research — some of which focuses on people who report being extremely dissatisfied with where they live — is that things get easier the more time goes by.“If you stay in a place long enough, you’ll form connections and social bonds,” she says. “You’ll learn how to use that place to meet your goals, and you will get attached.” If you can wait it out, the odds go up that you’ll fall at least a little bit in love with your new surroundings, even if that love is complicated.“People start off telling me all the things they hate about their place,” Scannell says. “And by the end of the interview, they’re starting to defend it. They say, ‘Well, but, it’s where I live. It’s still home.’”It’s an unspoken downside of innovation: Sometimes a push into new technology can leave certain people behind. Ideas like virtual reality, touchscreens, and 3D television might promise new experiences for most of us. But for people with disabilities, they can mean motion sickness, muscle pain, or worse.This innovation-disability gap is a major problem in video games, and one company is doing a particularly bad job dealing with it. While Nintendo rides high on the success of its new Switch console, people with disabilities struggle to enjoy the company’s games. These gamers complain of trouble navigating hits like Super Mario Odyssey — if they can play the games at all — because they’re packed with fiddly interactions requiring a flick of the wrist or sensitivity to a controller’s vibrations. Nintendo didn’t reply to a request for comment before deadline.These problems with the Switch have actually plagued the company’s products for years. The company’s Wii console, launched way back in 2006, also relied on innovative motion controls that shut some people out of the system — ironic, because the Wii was supposedly designed around accessibility.Super Mario inventor Shigeru Miyamoto wanted to make a game controller that got away from the complicated buttons, sticks, and triggers you might find on a typical gaming joypad. Aware that nongamers might be intimidated by something like the standard Xbox 360 controller, Miyamoto created the Wii remote with an accessible design “that would make people want to pick it up and try using it.”The remote ended up being painted in glossy iPod white, had few buttons to press, and looked like a stylish TV remote. But the secret ingredient was a motion-sensitive chip that could translate swipes, wiggles, points, and shakes into gameplay on the screen.Suddenly, playing a golf game was as intuitive as holding the controller like the handle of a putter and swinging it toward the TV. The Wii remote could magically transform into a tennis racket or baseball bat, a conductor’s baton or a musical instrument, a sword or a pistol.This opened up gaming to a whole new audience, just like Miyamoto dreamed. There were stories about Wii bowling leagues in retirement homes and reports about the console showing up in Buckingham Palace and Obama’s White House.But for those with certain disabilities, the Wii remote proved to be completely inaccessible.Riley Park, 28, told Medium that he’s always loved Nintendo games. The first console his family owned was the Nintendo 64, and they kept playing with it until the Wii came out in 2006. But around that time, Park was diagnosed with essential tremors, a nerve disorder that causes parts of your body, usually your hands, to shake uncontrollably.“Small movements really cause my hands to shake, to the point where I sometimes require both hands to hold onto a spoon,” Park said. This made gaming with a motion-sensitive controller very difficult.“I had continual problems,” he explained. “Whenever any game required you to hold the remote in a certain still position for a time, like with Mario Party or the Rabbids party game, I often failed those. I sort of stopped playing games that were like that entirely, especially around friends.”The success of the Wii inspired other companies to dabble with controllers that created hardships for people with disabilities. In 2010, Microsoft launched the body-sensing Kinect camera for Xbox, which Wired memorably dubbed a “Wii-too product.” With games like Dance Central, it asked players to flail about, swing their arms up and down, and generally make massive fools of themselves. Needless to say, that was practically impossible for gamers with any number of physical disabilities.Years later, companies would launch virtual reality headsets like the Oculus Rift. These technological marvels can leave people with inner-ear conditions like vestibular neuritis feeling queasy.And when online multiplayer games started introducing voice chat, they left gamers who were deaf unable to communicate with team members.Though innovations like the Kinect could largely be ignored, all of Nintendo’s recent consoles have focused on technical gimmicks that exclude players with physical disabilities. If you want to fully enjoy some of the most popular games on the Switch, you will have to deal with motion controls.Hannah Wooffitt, 24, lives with chronic fatigue syndrome, and being bed-bound for multiple years has caused her muscles to atrophy. “Nintendo’s motion controls are my enemy,” she said.“My boyfriend loves Nintendo games, but there are few multiplayer games that I can actually play,” she added. “He was excited for a new Mario Party on the Switch in the hopes we could play it together, but when he bought it, we quickly found out that it was motion controls only, so that was the end of that.”Super Mario Odyssey, the latest entry in the long-running franchise, is littered with similar problems. The bombastic adventure locks many of its special moves behind motion controls. If you want to launch your buddy Cappy at enemies like a homing missile, for example, you need to frantically shake the controller (or, if you’re playing in handheld mode, the entire system).“I love Odyssey, but I have found some of the advanced spins and jumps nearly impossible to do,” Park said. Wooffitt ended up having to watch her boyfriend play the game rather than enjoy it with him.You can’t turn off those motion-powered moves, leading a gamer with Parkinson’s to rant on Reddit: “Is it possible to not throw Cappy every three seconds when your hands shake like a fucking washing machine on spin cycle?”There’s a lot Nintendo could do to fix these problems. It routinely has basic commands tied to wiggling a controller, like pounding on the floor in Donkey Kong, pirouetting in Mario Galaxy, or swinging a sword in Twilight Princess. These moves could easily be triggered by a button press, if only there were an option to do so.And if you look beyond Nintendo games, you’ll find that gaming is more accessible than ever, as game makers have figured out how to make them work with different disabilities.The addition of symbols in the color-swapping puzzler Hue make the game playable even for people who are color-blind. Fortnite helps people who have trouble hearing with an option that translates the sounds of footsteps and gunshots into visual indicators. Both PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, the two major rivals to the Nintendo Switch, let you change which buttons do what across the entire console.Best of all is Microsoft’s new Adaptive Controller for Xbox One and the PC. This cool bit of customizable equipment can clamp onto wheelchairs and hook up to all manner of accessible inputs like foot controllers, one-handed joysticks, and easy-to-press switches.But while the controller can even work on PlayStation consoles and Macs (with the right adapters), “the only place it does not work is with any Nintendo consoles,” said Steven Spohn, chief operating officer at AbleGamers, a charity that advocates for gamers with disabilities.Spohn worked with Microsoft on its Adaptive Controller but said Nintendo has “repeatedly declined to work with us.”“It breaks my heart every time someone with a disability emails me excitedly, claiming they are getting a Nintendo Switch, and they want to know how to make it accessible, because nine times out of 10, we can’t make it any more accessible,” he said.Nintendo has offered some good accessibility options in certain games. Beat ’em up ARMS lets you completely customize the game’s controls. Colorful shooter Splatoon 2 is considerate of color-blind gamers. 1–2 Switch’s hyperdetailed rumble feedback makes it playable for gamers who are blind. Back in the 1980s, the company even came up with a bizarre-looking hands-free controller that made the NES playable for gamers who are quadriplegic.But overall, in 2018, Nintendo is lagging far behind other gaming companies that haven’t had to leave gamers with disabilities behind in the pursuit of innovation and hardware gimmickry. If Nintendo truly believes in its mission to make gaming more accessible to everyone, it needs to work much harder.Ring, an Amazon-owned smart doorbell company, wants to help you and your neighbors gossip about “suspicious activity” on your street with a standalone app called Neighbors. The app, which was introduced in May, encourages people to bring the surveillance state home by uploading video clips and publishing reports about neighborhood activities, which are then broadcast to other users and participating police departments.Ring markets Neighbors as a modern version of an old-school neighborhood watch program, encouraging communities to band together to protect one another and combat crime. In a commercial for Neighbors, a pair of greasy would-be package thieves are deterred from their crime after realizing video of them is being broadcast throughout the neighborhood. No cops are called, but a man walking his beagle, who has been alerted to their presence through the Neighbors app, watches the thwarted thieves drive their clunker out of the neighborhood, crime averted.Two things make Neighbors different than similar services like Nextdoor. First is the exclusive focus on crime. Neighbors prohibits posts that aren’t about crime and safety, which means that if you have nothing suspicious to post about, you’re not welcome to post at all. Second is the direct connection Neighbors forges with police. Not only will you and your neighbors be watching your streets through the app — so will the cops. Police departments can join Neighbors, view publicly uploaded videos, and request additional data from Ring for areas “where an incident may have occurred.” Just like traditional neighborhood watch programs, Neighbors will give cops extra eyes on the streets, but instead of reports from block captains, police will get video streams uploaded by the community.Sure, no one wants to feel unsafe walking down the street or in their own home. In theory, introducing a simple, app-based way for individuals to engage in the most well-known crime prevention program in the country seems reasonable. But no one is sure if neighborhood watch programs actually work.Studies on neighborhood watch are rare, and the data indicates that while some communities with neighborhood watch programs experience a drop in crime, others actually see crime spike. Most see little change at all.What is clear is that neighborhood watch is great at violating people’s civil rights, encouraging racial profiling, and annoying neighbors. And these problems are only poised to get worse as high-tech peer-to-peer surveillance increases.Many trace the origin of widespread neighborhood watch programs to the murder of Kitty Genovese in 1964. Genovese was on her way home from work when Walter Mosely stabbed her in the back and dragged her inside, where he attempted to rape her. Eventually, she bled to death. Two weeks later, the New York Times reported that 37 of Genovese’s neighbors had watched the attack and failed to call the police.The reported callousness of Genovese’s neighbors ignited fury across the country, and officials lamented everyone’s apparent disinterest in the safety of their neighbors. Academics coined the term “bystander apathy.”Of course, the details regarding the bystanders to Kitty Genovese’s death turned out to be mostly inaccurate. The Times itself would report, decades later, that “the article grossly exaggerated the number of witnesses and what they had perceived.” Regardless, her murder changed the way Americans view their responsibilities in their neighborhoods — and their connection to the police.Officials wasted little time harnessing the outrage over bystander apathy and implemented the program of quasi–law enforcement groups that would become known as neighborhood watch. Several volunteer groups arose in the early 1970s, from a group in New York who were trained to give eyewitness accounts of crime to an official Neighborhood Watch program developed by the National Sheriffs’ Association (NSA) designed to quickly disseminate information from the police to the community and promote civic engagement.The NSA program was based mainly on controversial research that came out of the Chicago School of Sociology, which advanced the theory that “social disorganization,” or the lack of social control in society, is what leads to crime. Similar to the ideas promoted by “broken windows” policing, the Chicago School thought that cracking down on smaller-scale crimes, with the help of concerned neighbors, could help prevent more serious criminal activity.The general idea with neighborhood watch programs is that citizens can act as extra “eyes and ears” in the community and report crime and suspicious behavior to the police. These programs grew without fanfare for much of the 1980s and ’90s. Police and communities touted the benefits of neighborhood watch, but actual studies were scant and their conclusions unpersuasive. Nonetheless, communities and police continued to start new programs throughout the country until neighborhood watch became the most well-known crime prevention program in the United States.As neighborhood watch programs grew in popularity, so did surveillance technology. CCTV, the first widely used video surveillance tool, gained widespread popularity in the 1980s and ’90s. The video systems allowed cops to magnify their surveillance by feeding video from several different CCTV cameras directly to a bank of monitors overseen by a single person. Business owners and even private citizens enthusiastically installed CCTV systems in the name of crime prevention and personal safety.CCTV — which seems quaint compared to a network of smart doorbells that are technically controlled by a massive e-commerce corporation — was met with harsh backlash from privacy experts, who called it a violation of civil liberties. CCTV owners weren’t concerned. Not yet armed with Wi-Fi and smartphones, they shared their home security bloopers the old-school way: on America’s Funniest Home Videos. It’s a phenomenon continued by Ring, which regularly promotes funny doorbell videos.This turn toward technology-augmented surveillance also provided ample opportunity for government abuse. At the same time that neighbors began to watch each other in the name of public safety, CCTV cameras began to appear, watching us at the bank, the courthouse, and the store. CCTV cameras were installed first by police to monitor select areas, and then increasingly permeated all aspects of the public square.As policing and technology changed, our prison populations boomed, with changes in drug and sentencing policies mandating more and longer sentences. Along with heightened arrest numbers and longer prison sentences, police saw neighborhood watch as an integral part of a war on crime that disproportionately targeted people of color. While white neighborhoods started neighborhood watch programs, black neighborhoods were decimated by overpolicing and incarceration.After 9/11, personal safety and security took on a new urgency. In 2002, the National Sheriffs’ Association joined with the Department of Justice to pivot its program toward national security. Together, they rebranded Neighborhood Watch as USA on Watch, and communities were encouraged to “become active in homeland security” and to “fight against terrorism.” The terrorism-fighting mechanism was mostly limited to encouraging disaster preparedness among neighbors, but the insider/outsider dichotomy present in Neighborhood Watch programs took on new meaning as Islamophobia ran rampant in the wake of the terrorist attacks.Communities, now believing they were responsible for the security of the entire country, began closely surveilling their black and brown neighbors in the name of homeland security and engaged in hate-based violence in the name of retribution for 9/11. The FBI and NYPD took things further, putting entire communities under surveillance for years, using license plate readers and tapping the phones of blocks upon blocks of New Yorkers who lived in predominantly Arab communities.Although it is not clear why, the Department of Justice eventually pulled funding from the USA on Watch program and reverted to its original moniker under the umbrella of the National Sheriffs’ Association. The shift back to the less exciting, nonterrorism-related activities of the average neighborhood watch, however, did not stem the racism that seems to have seeped into most initiatives.While some neighborhood watch programs do nothing more than host monthly police-liaison community meetings, others have adopted the idea and title of neighborhood watch to patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, looking for undocumented migrants, or to stalk the streets on behalf of the KKK, presumably looking for nonwhite residents out after dark. Many of these groups invest heavily in police and military-grade gear, from mobile command centers to high-tech surveillance gadgets.Some of the problems endemic to neighborhood watch groups were thrust front and center in 2012, when neighborhood watch block captain George Zimmerman shot and killed Trayvon Martin in a Florida subdivision. The resulting trial revealed that Zimmerman frequently called the cops to report black men in the neighborhood as part of his neighborhood watch duties. He was eventually found not guilty, and a large part of his defense relied on his role as a protector of the neighborhood.While the Zimmerman trial was happening, neighborhood watch groups were slowly making their way online with the advent of Nextdoor.com, which launched in 2011. Nextdoor was one of the first major websites to actively solicit and distribute crime and safety information to neighborhood users alongside other neighborhood-related content. After a few relatively innocent years of posts about local plumbers and crowdsourced restaurant recommendations, Nextdoor developed a problem: rampant racial profiling. Posts regarding “suspicious” people of color walking down the road, riding their bike, or otherwise existing in public infiltrated the site. White users complained about people of color in their neighborhoods and described suspected perpetrators of crime in unhelpful and racist terms.Nextdoor initially blamed the problem on racist users, but the company eventually set up systems to nudge members away from posting racist content by requiring posters to describe more than the race or ethnicity of suspected wrongdoers. Nextdoor’s solutions were both lauded as innovative and criticized for not doing enough, but no one seemed to question the underlying rationale for peer-to-peer policing in the first place.In fact, Nextdoor’s successes set the stage for other tech companies to enter the market of nosy neighbors. Canary, a home camera system, allows you to sound an alarm or call the police directly from the app’s interface should you detect an intruder while staring at a video stream of your living room. SimpliSafe, a cloud-based home security system that promises to deter criminals from entering your home and promptly reports any alarms or disturbances to the police, had revenue of $38.5 million in 2013, up from $1.4 million in 2010. In 2018, a private equity and venture firm took control of SimpliSafe in a deal that valued it at around $1 billion.Flock Safety, a Georgia-based security startup, wants to bypass individuals entirely. Flock cameras, which cost $1,500 per year, are “designed to solve crime” by reading and tracking the license plates on cars driving through the neighborhood, storing video footage, and using “advanced machine learning” to turn video footage into the “key images needed to make an arrest.” Ring has built something of a cult following around videos captured through its motion-sensing video doorbells, which the company encourages users to share on the Ring app and social media.Neighbors is the logical next step — a place where video clips from your doorbells and security cameras are cannibalized into content for neighbors to scroll through and police to analyze. But Neighbors is also a glimpse into what seems like an inevitable future where neighborhood streets become a high-tech panopticon and neighbors spy on neighbors.Tech companies are successfully convincing us that personal and public safety mandates a reduction in privacy and that policing our neighbors is the mark of a good citizen. But the decades of American jurisprudence about privacy are not merely the stuff of academic debate: They are a stark record of the abuses that arise when the state has unlimited access to the particulars of our lives. As use of private surveillance and high-tech neighborhood watch initiatives expand, we will have to grapple with what exactly we are willing to sacrifice in the name of safety. Because it isn’t just your neighbors the state wants to see from your video doorbell—it’s also you.Update: Following the publication of this story, a Ring representative emailed the following statement:Author’s Note: Parts of President Trump’s speech have been rearranged and slightly edited for clarity and narrative. Considering 70 percent of his claims are false or misleading anyway, the liberty felt appropriate.About 30 minutes into the president’s speech, something inside me snapped. I’d been in Trumpworld for over eight hours, wholly submerged in the MAGAsphere, and I thought I’d acclimated. I thought I was immune to the headaches and nausea and screaming angry outbursts that are common when a liberal is exposed to Donald Trump and 12,000 of his rally-goers. No matter what I heard or saw from the president and his people, I could handle it, I thought—I could hold their world in my hand, curious, and observe it as closely as I wanted without putting myself in any danger. I was wrong.Sweating and cursing uncontrollably, head on a swivel, I pushed my way out of the overflow crowd gathered outside the Ford Center in downtown Evansville, Indiana, where the president was inside rallying the base into a fever pitch. A massive video screen—a Jumbotron, really—had been placed on top of a white trailer outside the arena and was broadcasting the feed to the 2,000 or so supporters who hadn’t been able to fit inside.The president’s words echoed from the P.A. system, and I picked up the pace, literally biting down on my tongue as I put as much distance between myself and a potential punch to the back of the head as possible. There was one place I knew I would be safe. There, on the other side of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., behind a wall of police officers: protesters. 500 of them, at least, holding signs, chanting, expressing all their pent-up frustration and anger while surrounded by a small army of like-minded liberals.“My people,” I thought, as I approached the curb where a group of Trump supporters were still engaging in a back-and-forth with the protesters. Right as I walked up, however, they launched into a particularly accusatory chant:“Go home, ra-cists!”“Go home, ra-cists!”“Go home, ra-cists!”They were screaming, faces scrunched in anger, spittle flying from their lips, and they were pointing at us—at me. I wanted to yell out, “No, wait! I’m on your team,” but of course, in that moment, I wasn’t. It didn’t matter that I’d been yelling in the streets since Occupy or that I canvassed for Bernie, voted for Hillary, and currently have a “Donnelly for Senate” sign planted in my yard. Nothing I had ever done or said or believed mattered—I was no longer an individual person.In that moment, the only thing that mattered was the side of the street I was standing on.I encountered my first Trump supporters a few miles outside of downtown Evansville, in the parking lot of a liquor store. I’d made the 175-mile journey down I-69 in less than three hours, the vast rural nothingness between Indianapolis and Evansville blurring together into one never-ending unincorporated township, and I had some time to kill before checking into the hotel. I swung into the Liquor Locker off the expressway to pick up a post-rally sixer, and that’s when I saw them. Two white guys in their early twenties, sporting neon ’80s-style sunglasses, flip-flops, and matching American flag shorts. As if that didn’t give them away, they’d written TRUMP 2020 #MAGA on the dirty back window of their silver SUV. Watching them lugging beer out of the store, giddy and laughing, I was reminded of being in college and loading up the van before going to Panama City for spring break 2003 #SUYT. Which got me thinking about all the bad decisions I made when I was that age, which led to the inevitable question: Could I have been one of those dudes? If I’d been born in the late ’90s, and not the early ’80s, could I have been a Trump bro?My initial reaction was to say, “Fuck no.” I might have made some bad decisions when I was that age, done some things I’m not proud of, brought shame to my parents, but in no way could I have ever been one of those guys, pregaming for a Donald Trump rally. Right? The more I thought on it, the less certain I became.Having grown up in a privileged, whitewashed suburban community outside Indianapolis, and having attended a nearby college where I hung out exclusively with other privileged white suburbanites, I had a wildly skewed, totally ignorant perception of the world outside my own existence at that age. And while I certainly can’t imagine, at any age, finding appeal in Trump’s anti-immigrant, racist rhetoric, I couldn’t help but wonder, for instance, if maybe I could’ve been convinced his war against political correctness was a worthy one—that my constitutional right to say something offensive in casual conversation with friends, which I did all the time back then, outweighed the personal hurt and discomfort it caused in others who might hear me. I really don’t know. Maybe. Probably.And could I have been led to believe, if all my frat brothers also believed it, that the white man was being unfairly targeted, discriminated against, even—that it was us who were the victims? I mean, I would fucking hope not. I would hope that my 21-year-old self, despite such a limited worldview, would have seen that for the utter bullshit it is. But honestly, I can’t say for certain.What I know for sure is that 21-year-old me, like 36-year-old me, would have been a Bernie supporter, but that the younger version, unlike the older, would not have voted for Hillary, not after the DNC rigged the primary in her favor. I also know that I would have found candidate Trump amusing and probably totally harmless—I did, after all, host a weekly Thursday evening get-together during my junior year of college, not to play beer pong or deal poker, but to watch The Apprentice at nine o’clock on NBC. It cracked us up, the over-the-topness of it all, and we hollered, “You’re fired!” at each other for the better part of a year.But would all that have been enough to earn my vote? Would his celebrity appeal and the male chauvinism and his decidedly non-political correctness have been enough to override the values my parents—both devoted Democrats—instilled in me? Well, in real life, back in 2000, my first ever vote was cast for Ralph Nader, who I thought was going to legalize marijuana. So, yeah, I’m pretty sure I would have sold my parents values out in a heartbeat, at that age.“And once you’re on the Trump train,” I thought, with a shiver, as I walked into the Liquor Locker, “you’re only a stop away from pregaming in your American flag shorts.”Originally, I had planned on staying in the DoubleTree hotel across the street from the Ford Center, but when I’d gone to book a room that morning, all 241 were sold out. They had been for three days, filled with Trumpworld support staff and rally personnel. Instead, I ended up at the only place downtown that had an available room, Le Merigot Hotel, which was connected to the Tropicana casino and billed as “Evansville’s first boutique hotel.”In order to get from my room to the street, I first had to cross the casino floor, 200 yards of red-carpeted temptation. I made it past dangling cigarettes, trays of sweating cocktails, and a silver-haired woman in a pink Playboy bunny shirt, but I couldn’t escape the rows and rows of penny slots. I grabbed at my wallet, opening it to reveal a solitary dollar bill. Machines were plink-plinking all around me, bells were ringing, people were winning. I could feel my heart beat a little faster as I sat down next to a lady huffing a cigarette and aggressively smacking her machine’s spin button. I pumped in my last dollar, an act that gave me a tingle of shame mixed with adrenaline. I felt like a junky about to spike a vein. I hit spin.This—right here on the floor of the Tropicana Evansville—this was the American dream. Forget the antiquated ideal of the 1950s, that nonsense about how anyone no matter who they were or where they came from (assuming they weren’t black or brown or female) could forge a better existence for themselves in this country through dedication, initiative, and a lifetime of hard work. Fuck that shit. Now it’s all about making the most amount of money in the shortest amount of time with the least amount of effort. The American dream of today is about going viral, becoming a YouTube influencer, a reality TV star, an Instagram endorser; it’s about buying a Powerball ticket, finding Boardwalk on a box of McDonald’s fries, meeting an angel investor on an elevator. The new American dream is pulling the lever for Donald Trump and making all your problems disappear.A minute later, after only three spins, my dream was dead, and I was slinging my backpack over my shoulder and walking out onto the street, forced to go to work.“Why are you doing this again?” My wife’s parting words bounced around my head as I made the short walk from the hotel to the Ford Center. It was a fair question. It’s not like anyone was paying me to be there. I hadn’t been contracted to write a story; George Soros hadn’t paid me to protest. Why in the hell was I attending a Donald Trump rally?What I told my wife, and it was the truth, was that I wanted to experience a Trump rally as one of his followers experiences it. I wanted to get lost in the spectacle and forget about the politics of it all. I wanted, somehow, to humanize Trump supporters, turn them back into individuals in my mind. I’d been having a hard time breathing deep and staying calm about the future of our country as we careened toward midterms. I was hoping that by exposing myself to Trumpworld, by allowing myself to get swept up in the MAGAness of it all, I would come away with some valued insight, an understanding of his supporters that would make me feel not so certain that we were on a collision course toward civil war.What I didn’t tell her was that when I’d received the text from Trump inviting me to the rally, my first thought had been: I have to go. Which is kind of a weird reaction, I must admit, from someone with so much disdain for the guy. But the truth is, I felt drawn to the rally, as if some greater gravitational force were pulling from my couch, out of my bubble, and into Trumpworld. I had to know what it was like.I rounded the corner at Sycamore and Sixth, and there it was. My first Donald Trump rally. And, holy shit, I had not expected the line to be so long. It snaked from the entrance of the Ford Center, coiling down Main Street, around the Ford Center, and disappearing off into the distance. There were so many people spread out over such a long distance it was impossible to get an accurate count: I guessed somewhere north of 5,000, and south of 63 million.A lot gets made of the “circus-like” atmosphere accompanying Trump rallies, but as I joined the tail end of the line, I was struck by how subdued the vibe was. Garth Brooks wasn’t blaring loudly from a handheld speaker, nobody was aggressively leading patriotic chants, a big-bellied shirtless man didn’t run up and down the street waving an American flag—people were just kind of standing around, listlessly, waiting for the line to start moving so they could all shuffle into an enclosed, air-conditioned space. It reminded me more of the end of the circus, when all the exhausted animals are herded onto the train bound for the next town. Then again, it was 90 degrees and hair-curlingly humid, and a lot of these people had been standing in line without shade for hours, prompting numerous heat-related ambulance runs. I don’t think I would have been much in the mood for a “Lock her up!” chant at that point either.The free tickets to the event had explicitly stated there was no dress code, and yet, I noticed that most everyone had come dressed uniformly anyway, depending on their generation. The older crowd, the grandparents, the baby boomers were the most overt and transparent in their devotion to the president, with many sporting 2020 campaign gear and other Trump-specific apparel.The generation behind them, generation X, were much less politically expressive, probably because many looked to have just come from work. There were plenty of construction boots, flannel shirts, and nursing scrubs, but also people wearing khakis and polos, blouses and dress skirts. To signify their support, they wore buttons pinned to their chest or carried small American flags on tiny sticks.Their kids, the grandchildren, the millennials, tended to shy away from anything Trump-specific, sticking exclusively to red-white-and-blue, stars-and-stripes, Fourth-of-July themed clothes. Almost as if they’d committed to the America First message, but still weren’t sure about the messenger.The one thing that cut across generational lines were the MAGA hats. One out of every three supporters, it seemed, was wearing one, and I got the impression that, for some, particularly the kids—who wore them flat-billed or backward—putting on that red MAGA hat was their favorite part of being a Trump supporter.There was only one person, out of all those thousands in line, whose attire appeared to represent an opposition viewpoint, and it sure as hell wasn’t me. I’d left my “Repeal and Go F$%K Yourself” shirt back home, instead going with a red IU basketball tee (Hoosier hoops being one of the last unifying symbols left in the state of Indiana).Sandwiched between an old white guy with a plug of chewing tobacco in his cheek and a young white man in a button-up dress shirt and wraparound black glasses, stood a solitary woman dressed in a simple ankle-length red dress, with an attached red cloak that appeared to be made out of a bedsheet. Her head, bowed in silence, was obscured by a white bonnet, and her hands were folded in front of her stomach.Karen B. Supak grew up the daughter of a historian in southern Mississippi. She used to get lessons on nonviolent resistance whenever the family crossed over the bridge in Selma on their way to visit her grandmother in Alabama. In high school, she was a punk rock kid who was refused service for the way she was dressed and eventually fled for California, to UC Berkeley, arriving on campus on the eve of the 30th anniversary of the free speech movement. She’s been peacefully protesting various civil-rights affronts since the Rodney King verdict back in ’91.Never like this though. Never embedded with the opposition, dressed as a symbol of their oppression, and committed to a vow of silence (she had a brief statement written out on her phone explaining who she was and her purpose, in case anyone asked). The change in approach was out of necessity. Karen, who lives in Evansville, has a 16-year-old son, a budding Trump supporter, who wanted to see the president speak.“He’s a 16-year-old white boy who lives in southwestern Indiana and comes from a family of privilege,” Karen would explain later, laughing at the irony of it all. “I can absolutely see the attraction if you were growing up in a privileged position in America these days, and seeing the president and going, ‘Oh, he can get away with acting however he wants to, and he looks a lot like me.’”Besides, she acknowledged, she was at least partly to blame. Back in 2016, in an attempt to expose the then-14-year-old to both sides, she’d taken him to a Bernie Sanders rally in Bloomington and then to the Trump rally in Evansville. It was his choice from there.Karen had no problem with her son cutting school to stand in line for the rally with a few of his friends, on one condition: She wanted to go with him. She wanted to hear what the president had to say to her teenage son. Which put her in a predicament. Under no circumstance was she willing to be mistaken as a Trump supporter, a hard thing to accomplish while standing in line for a Trump rally, as she discovered back in 2016 when she was heckled multiple times for not engaging in various chants. That was the other problem. Karen could be vocal in her opposition, especially when people were being rude or ugly. She’d only made it 20 minutes into Trump’s speech last time before her son had to pull her out of there. “You’re freaking out, Mom. Let’s go,” he told her, after she became agitated to the point of disturbing those around her by not-so-quietly muttering under her breath.The homemade handmaid’s costume, then, was the perfect solution for both problems. Not only did it allow her to very clearly distinguish herself from the Trump supporters, but the vow of silence—meant to replicate the subjugation of women in Trump’s patriarchy—gave her an excuse to keep her mouth shut.As I weaved in and out of the crowd, I noted a handful of reporters lurking across the street with their cameras or notepads, darting into the line to do a quick interview or shoot some b-roll. But the Right Side Broadcasting Network crew—a five-person outfit consisting of a cameraman, three young, red-clad female reporters, and a bearded guy in a seersucker suit—were right in the middle of it and had been the entire afternoon. The network rose to prominence in the summer of 2015 by live-streaming wall-to-wall coverage of Trump’s primary rallies, and in late October 2016, less than a month before the general election, the Trump campaign teamed up with RSBN to produce pre- and post-debate analysis shows that were then streamed on Trump’s Facebook page. The partnership prompted a New York Magazine headline to ask the following day: “Did Trump TV Premiere Last Night?”But then Donald Trump won. There was no longer a need for Trump TV, not with Fox News handling those duties. The original content RSBN produced flopped—hiring a white nationalist to host the flagship show wasn’t a great idea—and a staff of 14 had dwindled to four. But they were still at it, still covering rallies like the state media they aspired to be. And while their pregame coverage—six hours of live, unedited interviews with Trump supporters—was rough and amateurish, striking in its lack of depth or neutrality, watching it offers perhaps the truest portrait of who those people standing in line really were. And so I offer a sample:“We have so much in common with each person standing here,” said Randall, a dog breeder from southern Minnesota, pointing at his fellow “Front Row Joes,” a group of strangers who had met—and in some cases come together—over their love of attending Donald Trump rallies. Randall had been in line since the night before, and with his American flag cowboy hat and full-sized MAGA flag, he was the group’s de facto head cheerleader. His voice was hoarse as he spoke to the RSBN reporter. Informing her that his dog, Donald Trump, had knocked up one of his other dogs, Miss America, and that he was selling the puppies. He then explained why he was attending his 38th rally.“When President Trump comes out onto that stage, he inspires us,” Randall said, his voice cracking with emotion. “And hopefully we inspire him back, to keep working, keep fighting for us, because the man is tough, and he’s doing it, but he needs us to inspire him back. It’s a two-way street.” Randall pointed again at his fellow Front Row Joes. “It’s beautiful.”Casey, an unemployed laborer from southern Illinois, about two-and-a-half hours away, was attending his first ever Trump rally, but that hadn’t stopped the MAGA-hat-wearing newbie from joining Randall in waving the flag and leading cheers. “I’ve done it many times in my dreams,” he joked to the reporter, who followed up by asking what specifically had him so fired up.“Well, I’ll tell you what’s firing me up is the fact that you can understand this President. He’s not shooting the bs,” Casey declared, in a loud, booming voice. “That’s it, that’s the bottom line.”Ted, a farmer and mechanic from about two hours west of Evansville, had been in line since 11 a.m. He was also attending his first Trump rally, and while he was certainly a supporter of the president, it was his wife who was crossing something off her bucket list. He was a little hot, a little sticky in his blue jeans and plaid shirt, but otherwise enjoying the atmosphere.“Our president has a lot of really fantastic qualities,” stated the reporter. “Do you have a favorite?”Ted paused for a second, contemplating the question. “Well, I hope he’s for the farmers,” he said, a little carefully, adding that he wants more money for his grain. “We want to eat cheap in America,” he explained, “so you got to have support for the farmers. He’s looking out for us—I hope.” When asked what drew him to the president, Ted echoed the sentiments of Casey: “He shoots straight from the hip, you know. He’s not bs-ing around about it. Some people don’t like it, but you don’t play the fence. You’re either on one side or the other.”Lorenz, an Indiana native, wasn’t as interested in policy. Sporting an oversized black Q-Anon shirt, he shifted nervously from one foot to the other, thumbs tucked into his balled fists, as the male RSBN reporter asked what he was most interested in hearing the president talk about. Lorenz gave a quick, uncomfortable glance at the camera and shifted his weight. “Basically,” he said, his eyes darting again to the camera, “let’s stop the Deep State from doing what they’re doing through the lamestream media.”There were plenty of women in attendance too—a lot of sweet Southern ladies who loved the president unconditionally and who were thrilled at the opportunity to be in his presence. “I feel like I’m going to the beach,” said one shockingly pale woman. “I’m just so excited to see him.”One of the more unabashed and vocal female supporters was Carol from nearby Santa Claus, Indiana (it’s a real place: home of Holiday World and Jay Cutler). She was sitting in a folding chair up against the side of a building, a Diet Pepsi in the cup holder, when she was approached for an interview.Carol was tired and hot, she admitted, and regretted wearing black. She wanted to wear her red Trump shirt, but her and her husband George had been in court earlier that morning (“We own rental property, and it’s been a bit of a problem,” she confided on camera, before George cut her off). Her grandson went to University of Evansville, and he had a huge Trump banner hanging in his dorm room that everyone kept telling him to take down.“Wow, wow. Cool, cool,” the RSBN reporter said, jumping in. “So tell me, is this your first President Trump rally?”Carol nodded, emphatically. “This is my first time, and I’m having a ball. I just love it!” She laughed, a crackling smoker laugh, and grabbed the reporter by the wrist pulling the mic closer toward her mouth. “Even though I’m 76 years old, had open-heart surgery, got steel in my hip, I’m here to support Trump!” She held out a Trump hat that had been sitting on her lap and pointed at the name on the front like a recent NBA draft pick, allowing the reporter to wrestle back control of the mic.“And what are you hoping to hear him speak on?”“Oh, I don’t care,” Carol answered, without hesitation. “He’s good. He’s done more in two years than our past president could do in eight years.” She looked at the camera and beamed. “I’m drinking to that!”“Yes! Definitely!” the reporter exclaimed. “And what’s your favorite quality about President Trump?”“He’s honest,” Carol answered, again without hesitation. “He tells the truth. He’s not a politician. He’s not all about money—I need this and that. He’s more about the American people, and I really and truly think if we give Trump a chance,” her hand was clenched into a fist, and her voice was rising, “he WILL make America great again.”“Yes!”“I have no education,” Carol declared. “But we’re 100 percent for Mr. Trump!”When I saw the crowd spilling out onto the patio of Kevin’s Backyard Grill, right across from the arena—not to mention the “$4 Domestic Drafts” scrawled on the chalkboard propped up on the sidewalk—I knew where I could kill some time. Narrow and dark, even with full sun outside, the place featured a long wooden bar to one side, a stage for rock bands to the other, and in between was filled with Trump supporters conversing, laughing, guzzling 32-ounce domestic drafts and chowing down on baskets of loaded tots and boats of buffalo chicken dip. I slid onto a stool at the bar, ordering up some tater tots and a Coors Light from the sweating, smiling bartender, who was quick on the draw. I took a big gulp, then another, and did a half-swivel, surveying the scene.This all felt very familiar. The place was overflowing with Trump apparel and related paraphernalia, all of it in the home team’s colors of red, white, and blue. Even the servers and bartenders were dressed in matching dark-blue Trump/Pence 2020 T-shirts, although I wasn’t sure if they were true supporters or just looking for bigger tips. A group of college-age girls in American flag bandanas and jean shorts flirted with a couple of Trump bros in the corner. Next to me, an older gentleman in a “Don’t Tread on Me” hat argued with his Dale-Jr.-shirt-wearing buddy about those “SOB NFL players” who kneel during the national anthem.It was exactly like being at a bar in downtown Indy before a Colts or Pacers game. People were crammed against the back of my stool, shouting out orders while the bartender paced the rail, pointing and pouring, the noise level ramping up incrementally with each shot thrown back. It was a joyful, anticipatory atmosphere, and when my loaded tater tots came, I ordered another beer and settled in with a smile on my face.In that moment, dipping tots in ranch and sipping Coors, I have to admit that I felt one with the people in that bar. As long as I sat there watching Around the Horn on mute, bathing in the buzz of the place, I could forget what everyone was there for. For that hour, they ceased to be Trump supporters, and I was no longer a Trump hater. We were just a group of half-drunk, totally stuffed Americans headed to a big event. And I’d be lying if I said I didn’t share in their excitement. We were about to see the president of the United States speak in person. Did that not still mean anything? Had Trump so sullied the office that it no longer meant anything to be in its presence? I certainly didn’t feel that way. Right then I was thinking this would be something I’d tell my kids about someday.The bartender, a friendly, goateed guy in his thirties, caught the attention of the man crammed next to me. The guy was a regular and they started chatting. The bartender wasn’t supposed to be in until that afternoon, but his manager had called him in at 10. The regular laughed and nodded as a guy with bowling ball shoulders caught the bartender’s attention with a $100 bill. “Hey man, can you make change for this?”“Oh hell yeah,” the bartender said, wiping his hands on what was definitely a crisp new Trump shirt, reaching into his tip jar. “Been a good day!”When I was 12 years old, Reggie Miller pulled off one of the most miraculous comebacks in sports history. I remember exactly where I was when it happened: I’d been sitting in my parents Toyota Previa minivan, slowly strapping on my soccer shin guards, listening on the radio as the Pacers fell behind by six points with 18 seconds left to go against the New York Knicks, a playoff series that had been dubbed “Hicks versus Knicks” by the New York media.When the Knicks pushed the lead to six, I’d slid open the Previa’s door so forcefully it shook the window glass and started trudging toward the soccer field, head down and kicking grass. I didn’t get far. “Oh my God! Aaahhh!” I heard my mom scream as I turned around in a panic. My dad was hanging out the driver’s side window, waving me to come back: “He did it! He did it! He did it!”Eight points in nine seconds. That’s what Reggie Miller had done—and even 23 years later, it stands as one of the single greatest comebacks in the history of professional basketball. From that day until he retired a decade later, if there was time on the clock and #31 was on the court, the Pacers still had a chance. No subsequent failure to execute—and Miller had plenty of big misses—could ever shake that feeling.I was reminded of all this in the moments after leaving the Backyard Grill. I’d exited at the corner of Main and Sixth Street, diagonal from the entrance to the Ford Center, stepping out into the sunlight with a hand shielding my eyes. The doors to the venue were finally open, and the line was moving, glacially, as Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believing” blared from the speakers. The side streets were packed with people milling about, shopping the row of tables and tents selling unofficial merch, and the smell of hot dogs hung in the air. I made my way over toward the huge videoboard that had been set up outside the arena, where on-screen a highlight reel of the president’s shocking election-night upset played on a loop, eliciting a cheer from those in line every time the Fox News desk called Pennsylvania for Donald J. Trump.That’s when it hit me: Donald Trump was Reggie Miller. I tried to push the thought away, but the comparison was sitting there, too ripe to ignore. Like Miller, Donald Trump was from the coast, but not necessarily of the coast, and both men were mocked back home before being embraced by working-class underdogs in the Midwest. Both were loud and brash, hated by their opponents, and each came to embody the middle of the country’s resentment of all things big city and bright lights. They both also enjoyed, to great effect, using the media to lash out and provoke the very coastal establishment that had rejected them.And, most importantly, both pulled off miracles so unbelievable that it earned them a lifetime’s worth of belief in their powers.The night that the Fox News hosts announced the results of Pennsylvania, guaranteeing Trump one of the most improbable victories in the history of politics — it was the equivalent of Miller’s eight points in nine seconds in Madison Square Garden. It was confirmation that not everything was rigged against the average, mid-market Midwest American, that David’s stone could still fell the giant if there was enough momentum behind it.Journey had given way to Neil Young’s “Rockin’ in the Free World,” as I pushed through the crowd and out the other side, in search of the thousands of protesters the local paper had promised. Apparently there were two main groups gathering pre-rally, each getting hyped separately before marching toward the Ford Center and joining together as one unified protest. How perfectly symbolic, I thought, heading north of downtown in search of Memorial Baptist Church, searching for the group led by activists from the Sierra Club, Indivisible, Beyond Coal, Our Revolution, and the Tri-State LBGTQ Alliance.Maybe it was the beers or just my unfamiliarity with the city, but I couldn’t find Memorial Baptist Church for the life of me. I was nearly a mile north of downtown before doubling back toward Locust and Ninth, where the other group, led by the Vanderburgh County Democratic Party, was meeting in a grassy area by a parking lot. There were maybe 75 people milling around in front of the parking lot, signs at their side, talking quietly. They were scattered and broken into mini groups of three or four, and as I made my way with ease through the crowd, I picked up bits and pieces of conversations, most of which centered around one prominent political figure: Joe Donnelly. And it wasn’t in a “we support Joe” sort of way. More like, as a kindly-looking woman with short silver hair put it: “What the hell is Donnelly doing?”You have to feel for Joe Donnelly. After replacing Richard Lugar, a six-term senator and lodestar of moderate Republicanism, Donnelly spent his first four years in office crafting an image as a moderate, bipartisan compromiser, just like that of his predecessor. In fact, according to the Bipartisan Index, a lifetime ranking of senators conducted by none other than The Lugar Center, Joe Donnelly ranked as the second most bipartisan senator since 1993 (Lugar ranked #26, by the way). To put his bipartisanship in perspective, he voted with President Trump 62 percent of the time in 2017—more support than he gave Obama during his last year in office. Put another way, if Joe Donnelly were any more bipartisan, he’d be Todd Young.And then along came Trump, smashing the middle ground like a one-legged drunk in a China shop, leaving Donnelly to flail his arms and kick his feet like Wile E. Coyote run off a cliff. One minute he’s voting to fund the wall and roll back Dodd-Frank and ban abortions after 20 weeks; the next, he’s saving health care and going against the tax bill and putting sanctions on Russia. The end result is that for the past two years, Donnelly has done nothing but piss people off. Those on the right can’t understand why he would ever vote against the president, while those on the left don’t get why he ever wouldn’t. Both sides hold the same thing against him.The vibe I got from the protesters was that Trump supporters were a lost cause. Now that the president was openly supporting Donnelly’s opponent Mike Braun in the midterm, there was no hope in winning their vote. What Joe needed to be doing, as the Democrat sitting atop the state ticket, was turn out the base. Not reach across the aisle for a hand that wasn’t even extended. It was an angle I agreed with, prior to coming here. But standing in that mostly open field listening to a few scattered protesters arguing among themselves, and then comparing that to the line I’d seen winding through downtown, I was starting to see things a little differently.I mean, what the hell were we going to do about it? Vote for Mike Braun?I’d stopped by the hotel to drop off my backpack and was now speed-walking down Main Street with my notebook and a pen tucked behind my ear, ready to finally enter the belly of the beast. It was still warm and humid out, but the sun was beginning to fade over the horizon, filling the sky with a burning red hue that was, depending on your perspective, either beautiful or ominous.Just as I passed by Angelo’s, a quaint-looking Italian bistro with a “Make Angelo’s Great Again” sidewalk sign, two shirtless boys, maybe 10, 11 years old, came riding up the sidewalk on their bikes. The front one, the bigger of the two, his dirty blonde hair shaped into the beginnings of a mullet and blowing behind him, fixed me with a menacing squinty-eyed tough-guy look.“Make America great again!” he spat, breezing past me on the shared sidewalk.His friend, shorter, scrawny, buzz-headed, was trailing 10 yards behind and breathing heavily. “MAGA!” he huffed, standing up to pick up the pace as he passed.I did a double take, not entirely sure what the hell just happened. It sorta felt like I’d been threatened. Like the neighborhood bully and his sidekick had just warned me to watch my back in these parts. I laughed, a little uneasily. Were the kids all right?Standing in line in front of the Ford Center, watching Lara Trump, wife of Eric, inform us from the videoboard that “President Trump supports the First Amendment as much as he does the Second” but that “some people have taken advantage of that,” word began to ripple through the crowd that the cops were shutting the doors. Nobody else was getting in. I looked around, and for the first time all day, people weren’t smiling.A guy in his early thirties wearing a blue polo shirt wandered over to where I was standing in line, a couple hundred yards from the now-closed entrance. “Hey did you guys have tickets?!” he asked, a bit wild-eyed, to nobody in particular. When it was confirmed that everyone in the general vicinity did, he became agitated. “Me too!” he exclaimed, throwing his arms out wide. “What was the freakin’ point?!” The man had left work early and driven three hours from St. Louis to be there, he told us, speeding the whole way. Others voiced similar stories, joining what was becoming a chorus of complaint.“How the fuck are they printing more tickets than they have seats?”“If this were Luke Bryan at 80 bucks a pop, you can bet they’d find some room!”“Let’s charge the gates!” (said to a big laugh)Elton John’s “Candle in the Wind” began playing over the PA system, and Lara Trump was replaced by another highlight reel of Trump’s election-night miracle. A deeply tanned, heavily-muscled man with a lumberjack beard who’d been listening to the growing discord tried to explain the issue away. He heard some people had made copies of the tickets and then passed them out to friends. That’s why there were thousands now left standing outside. It wasn’t Trump’s fault.I desperately wanted to argue, to say of course the Trump campaign had given out more free tickets than they had room for. Why wouldn’t they? They had no clue how many people would actually show up. It’s one thing to download a free ticket, quite another to actually show up. But also: The Trump campaign wanted an overflow crowd. That’s why they’d set up the videoboard on top of the trailer. They wanted thousands of people left outside watching on the Jumbotron, so that Trump could then reference the thousands of people outside watching on the Jumbotron. It wasn’t nefarious. It was just Trump, the businessman and marketer, doing what he does best. And still they made excuses.“Man,” said blue polo shirt, fully accepting Lumberjack’s explanation. “That’s bullshit.” Lumberjack nodded, and they both turned to look up at the Jumbotron.Off in the distance came the faint echo of an angry chant, and for the briefest of seconds, I thought it was Trump supporters rising up in protest, demanding to be let in. “Let us in! Let us in!” I swear that’s what I heard, as I began moving in that direction. But as I got closer and the scene unfolded, I realized I’d been mistaken.It was the protesters. Hundreds of them. I’d written them off after the underwhelming showing at the Democratic party pre-rally, but apparently the group led by the activists had turned out. They were piled four and five deep the length of a city block down Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., almost all of them with signs. It was heartening to see, and I smiled as I took in the volume and variety of signage. There were short signs (“TRE45ON”) and long signs (“SuperCallousFragileRacistSexistNaziPOTUS”). There were sincere signs (“God Bless Our Free Press”) and familiar signs (“Black Lives Matter”). There were signs that suggested a little oversight (“Someone Take Away His Phone!”) and others that demanded coarser action (“Eat My Ass, Trump!”). There was even a sign about all the signs (“Not Usually a Sign Guy, But Geez.”)On the other side of the street, the side I was on, a growing crowd of Trump supporters had begun to gather. The protesters were chanting angrily and throwing expletive-laced invectives across the street, while the Trump supporters mostly just looked on in bemusement and laughed. To them, the whole thing was one big LOL. Here were hundreds of truly pissed-off liberals, forehead veins throbbing, calling them awful names from just 50 yards away, and the Trump supporters were laughing like they’d all just eaten a pot cookie and gone to the state fair.In the middle of it all, forming a human barricade, were police officers from varying patrols: beat cops, bike cops, even mounted police, helmeted officers sitting high on their horses, hands on their batons. One serious-looking sniper, muscles bursting out of his flak jacket, rifle at the ready—it was filled with bean-bag bullets, I’m pretty sure—stood on the curb in front of the Trump supporters, his sunglass-covered eyes scanning the opposite side of the street.Right in front of him, almost as if he were guarding it, protecting it from those on the left, was a splatter of horse shit.“You’re a fucking tool, bro!” One exchange toward the far end of the line caught my attention, and I moved closer to watch.On the left side was a trio of older black guys, probably in their early forties. They were on the curb and yelling at a Trump supporter, also a black guy, who was wearing a red Trump-Pence 2020 shirt and laughing. In his hand he held a small sign reading: “Blacks for Trump.”“And your boy, he’s the worst of the worst,” called out the ringleader of the protesters, sporting a white T-shirt with the message “F$#K RACIST TRUMP” handwritten on the front. A small smile jumped at the corners of his mouth, and he shot a glance at the line of officers. “I hope he leaves here and gets hit by a fucking car!”I wasn’t sure exactly who he was referring to, but those sounded like fighting words to me. The Blacks for Trump supporter, however, just laughed and shook his head. “You know what he go home to?”“What?” the ringleader fired back, mean-mugging.The man paused for a second, suddenly unsure of himself. “He, uh,” the crowd was starting to close in, people had their phones out. “He go home to a two-million-dollar mansion—” The three protesters were howling before he could get the sentence out, smacking each other in the chest, clowning. The Blacks for Trump guy raised his voice to be heard. “And I go home to a three-million-dollar mansion! Got two or three Rolls Royces!”The conversation devolved into unintelligible crosstalk at that point, and I was only able to make out the occasional insult through all the shouting:At that point, the Blacks for Trump guy’s friend showed up, and holy shit, I recognized him. I’d seen him on TV at another rally, standing right behind the president and cheering wildly while wearing a white T-shirt that read… I moved around to the side to get a better angle, and yep, it was him. Same gold chain, same sunglasses perched on top of the same permed hair. And most definitely the same T-shirt proclaiming, in bold, black letters, “Trump & Republicans Are Not Racist.”Now it all made sense.The midterms were a feminist triumph: Tuesday was dominated by wins for women — women of color in particular — leading to a record-breaking number of women who will be serving in Congress. There was also a slew of notable firsts, including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (the youngest woman ever elected to Congress), Sharice Davids and Deb Haaland (the first Native American women), and Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar (the first Muslim women). As Cecile Richards put it, “women were the heroes of this election.”Some, however, were the villains.While women were a driving force behind many of the Democrats’ successes, some were also responsible for some of the party’s major losses. After all, it was white female Republicans who brought wins home for Ted Cruz, Ron DeSantis and, possibly, Brian Kemp. Despite efforts to reach across the aisle, the majority of white women who voted for Donald Trump in 2016 have not realized the error of their ways, and likely never will. The hope of changing these key voters’ minds by pointing out the craven bigotry of the GOP or the president’s distinct lack of moral compass was, and remains, a fantasy.It’s time to dispense with the myth of American sisterhood. Women are not a monolith, and the women who support Trumpian Republicans — in the face of horrific injustices — will not change.If they were unmoved by traumatized children being ripped from their mothers’ arms, there is little hope of reaching them on a moral or maternal level. If they are not disgusted by the President’s racist and misogynist speech they are not likely to be swayed by arguments about civility and equality. If the women who are voting for Republicans can look at what is happening to this country and the most marginalized people in it — including themselves — and continue to support them, it may be time to write them off as a lost cause.The truth is that white Republican women are not waiting for their minds to be changed by well-meaning feminists; they are happy to vote for Trump. As author Rebecca Traister has written, “White women, who enjoy proximal power from their association with white men, have often served as the white patriarchy’s most eager foot soldiers.” (Brittney Cooper and Elizabeth Gillespie McRae’s work is invaluable on this front.)I used to believe in spending political energy and capital on changing these women’s minds; I suspect many other women still do. In the run-up to the election, there were think pieces about evangelical women, for example, who could not square their beliefs with Trump’s cruel policies and bombast. I also know plenty of white women who try to chip away at the beliefs of their Trump-supporting female family members, hoping that if they say the right thing or debate convincingly enough, their loved one might see the light.I admire such efforts and imagine it occasionally works. But those who believe it’s possible to flip female Trump supporters on a mass scale are overlooking how unwilling these women are to give up the benefits that white supremacy and patriarchy have bestowed upon them.Instead of focusing on women who have long shown us where their loyalties lay, Democrats are better served by continuing the grassroots organizing we saw by some of the winning women this week: Reaching out to voters who have been abandoned by the left or working to enfranchise voters whose rights have been suppressed.So I’m still counting this week as a feminist win. America’s political representation is one step closer to looking like Americans, and there’s no going back from the wave of activism and democratic participation that led to this point. But it wasn’t only women — and definitely not all women — who got us here. And it won’t be all women who continue the fight.Burnout in the workplace isn’t uncommon, and it’s not pleasant, either. Data from the American Institute of Stress suggests that 80 percent of U.S. workers feel stressed out about their jobs, with 40 percent in roles that are “very” or “extremely” stressful.People in high-intensity jobs, like those in the medical profession or law enforcement, are particularly prone to burnout, but they’re by no means the only ones who suffer from it. Across the professional spectrum, burnout can be caused by any number of factors: Long hours, conflicts with management, and overall job frustration are just some of the things that can leave any worker feeling like they’re on the brink of mental, emotional, or physical collapse.The easiest cure is also the most obvious: Take some time off. Going on a trip or setting aside a few days at home to refresh can temporarily reset your stress clock. But not everyone has the vacation days or financial means to make an escape, so you may need an alternative way to fight off the job scaries. Here are some ways to get yourself back on track when you can’t get away.The first step toward treating burnout is recognizing it for what it is. “There are three big signs of burnout,” says psychologist Ellen Hendriksen, author of How to Be Yourself: Quiet Your Inner Critic and Rise Above Social Anxiety. The first, emotional exhaustion, “is exactly what it sounds like: a sense of being drained and unmotivated and tired, both physically and psychologically. It gives you the sense of moving through mud.”Another symptom is something called depersonalization, or “a substitution of characteristics for an actual person,” Hendriksen says — for example, “nurses might start to refer to a patient as ‘the heart attack in Room Eight,’ or a psychologist might refer to a client as ‘that OCD guy.’” You stop seeing the people you work with as people and instead start to see them as burdens, which builds up a mounting sense of resentment.The last big sign of burnout, Hendriksen says, is losing the ability to focus. “[It’s] basically taking more time and energy to accomplish less,” she says. “If you’re noticing, ‘I’m working hard and really long hours but accomplishing a lot less than I used to,’ that’s a red flag.”Burnout, in many ways, feels similar to depression. But while the two share many traits, burnout tends to be more situational than depression’s all-encompassing state of gray. “If people feel like an anvil has landed on them at work but perk up at their soccer league or cooking class, then it is likely not depression,” Hendriksen says. “Depression colors every area of life, but burnout can be more job-specific. It bleeds over, but there is some contrast.”It sounds like an old cliché, but sleep, exercise, and proper nutrition can do wonders for your mood and stress levels.Unfortunately, burnout can cause you to swap out good habits for bad ones, which creates a vicious cycle. “Take an inventory of how much you might be drinking, or how much sleep you’re getting, or how much screen time you’re consuming, to try to make over any bad habits that have crept in because you’re feeling sluggish or unmotivated,” Hendriksen says. “It’s really easy to let job burnout and resentment turn into a ‘what the hell’ attitude when it comes to our personal habits.” It can be tempting to mitigate unhappiness at work with lots of boozy happy hours and midday candy breaks, but the physical benefits of eating and sleeping well outweigh the temporary burst you’ll get from short-term fixes.You should also try to cut down on screen time once you clock out, especially if you have a job that already requires a lot of screen time. The blue light emanating from your phone and computer can mess with your circadian rhythms, making it harder for you to fall asleep and leaving you feeling slightly jet-lagged. Screens can also cause eye strain, leading to headaches and increased feelings of fatigue. Consider swapping out your Netflix binges for time with friends, long walks, or other activities that keep you away from electronics for at least a few hours.Robert Taibbi, a licensed clinical social worker and the author of several books on mental health, says it’s important to suss out how your specific workplace habits might be affecting your happiness. “It’s about looking at your personality,” Taibbi says. “What does your job require? How much into control are you? Do you have a hard time delegating and getting help on things? Do you get obsessed because you tend to be perfectionistic?” If you tend to procrastinate, for instance, endlessly battling last-minute deadlines might be the root of your burnout. If you feel like you’ve taken on too much but don’t want to assign tasks to others, maybe that’s what’s causing your issues.Alter these habits accordingly, either on your own or with the help of a manager. For instance, at a former blogging job, I started to have trouble finishing posts before the end of the day. Though I was super productive in the morning, I’d lose focus after lunch and struggle to make up for lost time through the afternoon. My boss and I restructured my schedule so I’d log on from home a little earlier in the morning, file a couple posts, and then come in. That schedule allowed me to take advantage of my most productive hours and also broke up my day, so that by the time I came into the office, I wasn’t restless from feeling like I’d been sitting at my desk for too long.Hendriksen says it’s helpful to envision your perfect work environment, then take small, realistic steps to bring your reality closer to what you’re picturing. “People can fundamentally love their job and know they’re in the right field, but they might be overworked,” she says. “Perhaps you can try to justify an assistant. If you’re dealing with a long commute, perhaps you can work from home a few days a week. Work strategically to align your ideal workplace environment and duties with the actual one.”If work has started to drain your energy, Hendriksen says it’s important to identify activities that replenish it and focus on those activities in your off-hours. Socializing with friends is generally considered a good antidote to the drudgery of a working day, but if that doesn’t lift you up, perhaps you’d prefer to spend your off-hours reading a good book, or cooking, or taking a Spanish class.Just make sure it’s something you want to do and not something you think you should do. “It’s important to make sure it’s something you honestly, really believe would be fun,” Hendriksen says. “We so often do things that are good for us, but then it becomes another chore, even if ostensibly it would be fun.”And remember to separate you from your work life. Taibbi says people who suffer from burnout tend to tie their identities more strongly to their jobs. “Ideally, you want to be diversified. You want to have multiple baskets to pull from,” Taibbi says. “If all your self-esteem and identity go into one job, your risk of burnout goes up, because you’re anxious the basket is going to get turned over.”Sometimes, no matter how hard you try to make the best of job burnout, you really just need time off.“If you’re at the point where you are sacrificing your health for work, that is a sign. That never gets better on its own,” Hendriksen says. “That’s your body telling you that this is not a good match.” If you can’t get out of bed, for instance, or your blood pressure is spiking, or you’re suffering from regular stress headaches or not eating, it’s important to step away. Talk to your supervisor about going on leave or borrowing vacation days from next year, or promise to make up the time you’ll be out. Just make it clear how much you need this break, and then do what you can to get it.Taibbi suggests that even taking one day off might help get you back on track. “That’s when people say, ‘I’m going to take a mental health day,’” he said. “It’s when [your] productivity starts to fall apart because you just showed up at work and can’t plow through it.” You and your employer will both be better off if you can get back the energy you need to actually do your job.For five decades, conservatives have claimed the moral high ground in judicial matters, claiming that they are simply interpreting the Constitution as it was written by our Founding Fathers — what they call an originalist approach. But conservative justices’ decisions are no less shaped by their worldview than progressives’.In 2008, for instance, for the first time in U.S. history, the five conservative justices on the Roberts court declared a local gun control ordinance to be unconstitutional — a violation of the Second Amendment. In 2010, these same justices found that corporations have the right to spend unlimited amounts of money in election campaigns. In 2013, they invalidated a federal civil rights law in the area of race — a key provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 — for the first time since the 19th century.By any measure, all these cases were based on the ideology and values of the conservative Republican justices, not the text or the original meaning of the Constitution. It is laughable to say that the framers of the First Amendment intended that corporations should be able to spend unrestricted sums from their campaign treasuries to get candidates elected or defeated. Those who wrote the First Amendment did not envision campaign spending as it exists today, let alone modern corporations. Additionally, each decision-overruled precedent invalidated a law that was enacted with overwhelming support, broadly decided a matter when a narrow ruling was possible, and did so to advance conservative political values.It’s time for progressives to fight back by offering an alternative vision of constitutional interpretation and constitutional law based on fulfilling the Constitution’s promise of liberty and justice for all. Progressives need to expose how conservatives are using the Constitution to advance their own agenda, which favors business over consumers and employees and government power over individual rights.The first step must be to refute the conservatives’ legal notion of “originalism,” whereby all constitutional issues, including such controversial questions as the death penalty or affirmative action, can be resolved based solely on the original text of the Constitution and its meaning at the time it was written. Conservatives maintain that this allows justices to decide cases without imposing their own values. That is nonsense. There is no such thing as “value-neutral judging.” It is a myth that conservatives have advanced for decades and continue to espouse for their own purposes.But it is not enough to reveal the conservatives’ false promise of judicial neutrality. Progressives must offer their own vision for what the Constitution should be understood to mean. The document should be interpreted to fulfill its central values. Therefore, it is essential to begin by identifying the core underlying values that the Constitution is meant to achieve. The place to start is at the very beginning, with the Preamble, which articulates the purposes for the document. The Preamble states: “We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.”Unfortunately, the Preamble has been largely ignored in Supreme Court decisions and scholarly writings. It has been treated as a mere rhetorical flourish to the Constitution. But, on the contrary, it is much more: It provides a lens through which the Constitution can be examined, articulating the basic values of the document that follows.I, of course, am not making an argument that I know the intent of the framers of the Constitution in these areas. Their intent cannot be known and should not limit contemporary constitutional law. The Constitution must be adapted to the problems of each generation; we are not living in the world of 1787 and should not pretend that the choices for that time can guide ours today. Chief Justice John Marshall expressed this realization almost 200 years ago when he said that “we must never forget that it is a Constitution we are expounding,” a Constitution “meant to be adapted and endure for ages to come.”Given Donald Trump’s election, it is not likely that my vision will be adopted in the immediate future. But that’s not the point. Conservatives, in their think tanks and Federalist Society cliques, have spent years articulating and elaborating a conservative vision of constitutional law and the role of the Supreme Court. They did this even during years when conservatives were out of power. Liberals may have thought it futile to create a different and progressive vision with conservative justices in the majority on the Supreme Court for the past 45 years. Perhaps, too, progressives have been wedded for too long to the Warren court’s vision and not thought enough beyond it. The Warren court ended almost a half-century ago, in 1969, and it made huge strides in ending segregation and expanding the rights of criminal defendants. But now is the time to provide and defend and fight for an alternative, grander, and more inclusive interpretation of the Constitution.The Preamble to the Constitution clearly states the values that the document is meant to achieve: ensuring democratic governance, providing effective government, establishing justice, and securing liberty. Added to these values should be furthering equality, not something that was mentioned in the Preamble to a Constitution which protected the institution of slavery.There is much that progressives can fight for to fulfill each of these values. We need to create an election system that is far more democratic, including ending partisan gerrymandering, lessening the likelihood that the Electoral College will choose presidents who lose the popular vote, and combating disenfranchisement of minority voters.Establishing justice requires finally eliminating the death penalty, which is inflicted in an arbitrary and racially discriminatory manner. There must be a better system of ensuring that those who are accused of crimes have competent counsel.Securing liberty requires that there must greater constitutional protection of privacy. This includes more safeguards against government intrusions, better protection against information gathering by the government, and continued protection of basic aspects of autonomy, including reproductive autonomy.Looking at the Constitution in a progressive way would produce a very different approach, one that would do much more to provide liberty and justice for all. In most areas, it would not take more than the shift of a single justice to create decisions pointing constitutional law in a fairer direction that does much more to realize the promise of the Preamble and the Constitution. Maybe the unexpected will happen and there will be a progressive majority on the Supreme Court sooner than I or anyone expects. If not, some changes can be accomplished through legislative action at the federal or state levels; much can be done under state constitutional law when the Supreme Court and federal courts do not act.It is so tempting to look at the composition of the Supreme Court as a historic inevitability. But in reality, it is a product of coincidences between the timing of vacancies and who is in the White House. If Hubert Humphrey rather than Richard Nixon won in 1968—and it was a very close election—then a Democratic president would have picked four new justices between 1969 and 1971, and that would have continued a liberal majority on the court for decades more. If Al Gore or John Kerry had been president in 2005, when William Rehnquist and Sandra Day O’Connor left the Supreme Court, there would be five justices appointed by Democratic presidents on the court today, notwithstanding the election of Donald Trump, the appointment of Neil Gorsuch, and the resignation of Anthony Kennedy. If Hillary Clinton had been elected president — and she did win the popular vote by 3 million votes — and had replaced Antonin Scalia, the next years and perhaps decades of constitutional law would be vastly different.So I think it is important to step away from the current composition of the Supreme Court and focus instead on what should be the meaning of the Constitution itself. How should progressives interpret this majestic but flawed document? The Constitution, and how it is interpreted, affects all of us, often in the most intimate and important aspects of our lives. It should be interpreted to create a nation where there truly is liberty and justice for all.Finding treatments for Alzheimer’s disease is simultaneously one of the most pressing and difficult tasks in medicine today. Between 2000 and 2015, the number of deaths resulting from Alzheimer’s has shot up by 123 percent. Today, around one in 10 people over age 65 have the disease. The drugs available for Alzheimer’s aim to ease symptoms of the disease, but they cannot slow or reverse its progression. The last time a new medication was approved for Alzheimer’s was 15 years ago.Over the course of Alzheimer’s progression, sticky deposits of protein structures called plaques and tangles build up in the brain and damage and kill nerve cells. Proteins called amyloid-β and tau comprise these plaques and tangles and function improperly in Alzheimer’s sufferers. Drugs to combat Alzheimer’s often try to target these proteins.But in recent years, Alzheimer’s drugs in clinical testing have largely failed to produce adequate results. There are, however, a handful of promising options still in the running. David Geldmacher, a neurologist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, is working on a phase three clinical trial of a drug called aducanumab, which is sponsored by the biotech company Biogen. Medium spoke to Geldmacher about the challenges of drug discovery for Alzheimer’s disease and what keeps him optimistic for the future.David Geldmacher: One of the biggest issues in coming up with effective therapies for Alzheimer’s disease is that we really don’t know critical elements [underlying] the mechanism [of the disease] in most people with the illness.We know 1 or 2 percent of Alzheimer’s cases are clearly inherited. We tend to see, in those individuals, that the illness begins in the mid-forties. Because those mechanisms are so easily understood in the genetically determined cases, that’s what we’ve been able to use in animal models.A lot of work in Alzheimer’s disease is based in animal models with these human genes that cause Alzheimer’s. And things that worked well in animals have not turned out to work well in people. What we have learned, however, is that the process of Alzheimer’s disease begins in the brain years, probably decades, before the first symptoms emerge. In many cases, we’ve been trying to treat the illness too late in its course.What we’ve done in this particular study is use an antibody that has a slightly different configuration that targets a different part of the amyloid [compound] than some of the past treatments have targeted. But, more importantly, we are focusing on the disease very early on, when people have only mild cognitive symptoms. That means there has been less overall damage to the brain, and there’s a greater opportunity to prevent further cell death or rescue cells that have been made sick by the amyloid but not killed by them.The study is underway, so there are no findings that are reportable at this point. In a prior study, which was reported in Nature in 2016, the aducanumab antibody showed that it could clearly reduce the amount of amyloid plaques in the brains of people with Alzheimer’s disease. PET scans were done before treatment was administered and then at the end of treatment. People who received the aducanumab had a reduction in the amyloid burden in their brain. People who received the placebo during the same trial actually had an increased amyloid burden.This demonstrated that the agent is biologically active on the target we want it to be active on. The other thing noted in that trial was that patients on the highest dose of the medication showed some slowing of the progression of illness. This is one of the first studies where that’s been so clearly evident.Interestingly, at six months into the study, the doses did not distinguish themselves, so treatment was not clearly different from placebo. But at 12 months, the difference emerged. That tells us that the process by which the antibody is effective is a gradual one.That’s correct. One of the phrases we use in the field to characterize this type of treatment is a disease-modifying treatment rather than a symptom-modifying treatment. Since the disease is a chronic condition, we would have to assume that it’s going to require ongoing longer-term therapy. We don’t know whether that means lifelong or not. That’s research that still needs to be conducted.The biological agents, like aducanumab and BAN2401 [another molecule under development by Biogen], allow us to see proof of concept. They allow us to see that perhaps removing amyloid from the brain or preventing its accumulation is a valid approach. The next step would be to come up with a more easily produced, more easily administered, less expensive means of doing the same thing. So I view the biological situation as not necessarily the long-term solution for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease, but as opening the door to what future successes might look like.There is a whole second line of antibody therapies for Alzheimer’s that aren’t targeting the amyloid-β protein; rather, they’re targeting the tau protein, which is a critical factor in the neurofibrillary tangle. Several companies are working on anti-tau antibody therapies. Those are very early in development, but if they are successful, they may also open the doors.The market for Alzheimer’s therapies is huge, both in the United States and worldwide. So there’s an opportunity for big pharma companies to develop a very large treatment base, especially for treatments that might be more along the lines of prevention rather than intervention.There’s still a very active community of researchers pursuing new treatments, or more effective ones, for Alzheimer’s disease. Nonetheless, I do feel a great sense of responsibility. If you think about specialists like myself — people who focus on cognitive disorders or degenerative disorders — there are very few of us relative to, say, Parkinson’s specialists or multiple sclerosis specialists.So there is a lot of responsibility in trying to come up with therapeutics for an illness like Alzheimer’s, especially since the projections are that it’s going to dramatically increase in numbers over the course of the next 20 to 30 years. Epidemiological studies suggest that between 2000 and 2050, the number of Alzheimer’s cases in the United States is going to triple, approaching 15 to 20 million people with the illness. Life expectancy has also been progressively increasing, and since Alzheimer’s disease is an age-related disease, the more older people you have, the more cases of Alzheimer’s disease you’re going to experience.I have a huge pimple on my cheek when I try Olay’s skin analysis app, Skin Advisor. The app directs me to take a selfie and answer a few questions, like what worries me most about my skin — wrinkles or acne, for example — and what kinds of products I use on a daily basis.I’m prepared for the obvious news: I’m having a breakout. But within a few seconds, the app alerts me to an issue I didn’t know I had. According to Skin Advisor, my problem area is around my mouth, likely because of my smile lines, and I’m directed to buy a $22 anti-aging cream.This is curious, since TroveSkin, the Indonesia-based artificial intelligence app I tried before this one, analyzed my selfie and concluded that my biggest skin problem was texture, and that I should be using exfoliating, anti-aging, and brightening products.Skin Advisor and TroveSkin are two of about a dozen apps from startups and veteran skin care companies that use artificial intelligence (A.I.) to spot your skin woes, provide personalized product recommendations, and track your skin over time. In 2018, Neutrogena released a device and app package called Skin360, which uses a magnifying lens attached to your smartphone to deliver product suggestions. Startup Proven recently launched a personalized skin care line that draws from medical journals and reviews to suggest products based on your responses to an online assessment.The global cosmetics market is estimated to grow to $805 billion by 2023, with skin care accounting for the largest share. Between drugstores, online retailers, and beauty stores, it’s hard to know what you really need or want. Do I have blackheads or redness? Should I try to brighten my skin or start an anti-aging regimen? How do I make my skin look “dewy,” whatever that means? Hyperpersonalization using A.I.-driven technology has caught on in consumer products (think Google Home, Netflix, and smartphone facial recognition), so it makes sense that businesses see customizing your skin care routine as a logical application.Diana de la Iglesia Jiménez, an A.I. and computer engineering expert at the Bioinformatics Unit of the Spanish National Cancer Research Centre, a public research center, says the technology used in skin care apps is the same machine-learning technology used in other industries. “They collect data about you and predict your current needs or the potential features of your ‘ideal’ product,” she says, adding that she understands the technology’s appeal. “If these products are capable of analyzing your specific needs and features, they could bring you a solution more adapted to your real needs.”TroveSkin, for example, encourages you to take a daily selfie so you can follow how your skin is changing over time. I could log in throughout the day to let the app know how I was feeling, how long I slept, how much I exercised, and what I ate throughout the day.Some apps also guess your age depending on your skin’s appearance—what’s known as your “skin age”—with varying degrees of accuracy. TroveSkin, the first app I tried, guessed my age was 23, underestimating it by six years. When I used my laptop camera, Olay’s Skin Advisor correctly guessed I was 29. But when I tested it again using the app on my smartphone, it guessed I was 35.Proven co-founders Ming Zhao and Amy Yuan developed their business in response to their own skin troubles. Before starting Proven, Zhao was working 16-hour days at a private equity job in Hong Kong and “using all kinds of different miracle-promising skin care products, and I felt like nothing made a dent,” she says. “Eventually, someone recommended I see a skin guru to make personalized skin care for me. That was the only time I saw results.”When Zhao met Yuan, a computational physicist, at Stanford University, the duo started building a deep-learning skin care database using scientific studies and consumer testimonials. It now includes more than 8 million consumer reviews, 100,000 skin care products, 20,000 ingredients, and 4,000 scientific journals.Here’s how it works: Customers answer a list of questions about their skin concerns, how their skin reacts to products, and even what they eat. After you complete the quiz, Proven’s machine-learning algorithms scan the database to spit out information about your living environment and lifestyle and how they affect your skin and to match you with ingredients. Zhao says the company partnered with a dermatologist to work on the questionnaire and create the formulations it sells.When I tried the Proven app, I was told I’m not drinking enough water, which is leading to dehydration. Since I live in Dallas-Fort Worth, which has “unhealthy air quality,” Proven told me I’m exposed to pollution particles that cause wrinkles and age spots.To address these environmental factors along with my acne-prone, oily skin and hyperpigmentation, Proven suggested a customized three-product routine that includes ingredients like sulfur (to deal with acne), hyaluronic acid (to retain moisture), and mandelic acid (to exfoliate the skin for a smoother, clearer appearance). The three products cost $195 for a two-month supply.“Personalization is not just a trend. It’s going to be the future of all consumer products,” Zhao tells me. “With Proven, our products are tailored to you [based on] genetics, skin concerns, and environmental factors.”I ask dermatologist Fayne Frey if personalization apps are the future of skin care. Her response is a resounding no. “Apps have little if any clinical skill other than programmed, one-size-fits-all algorithms,” she says.Frey takes issue with some of the questions asked by Proven. Most consumers probably don’t know what’s wrong with their skin or how to answer questions about their level of stress, which is subjective, she says.Frey’s other issue with Proven, Skin360, and similar apps is that they lead consumers to purchase the company’s own products. The tech, according to Frey, is more about marketing than about giving people science-backed recommendations — the latter of which could actually be helpful. It’s a “market that’s feeding on people’s insecurity,” she says.Frey is attempting to create a nonbiased database herself. In 2014, she launched the website and product selector FryFace. Based on a few questions, consumers can find skin care options. She doesn’t make any money from the site and adds products manually. In her opinion, there are plenty of products already on the market that work just fine.Dermatologist Dee Anna Glaser, of St. Louis University, says that if A.I. apps get people thinking about taking better care of their skin, that’s not a bad thing. Unfortunately, A.I.-backed skin care apps are not cheap. For $195, Proven’s customized kit includes one cleanser, one sunscreen, and one night cream. It costs $50 to get Neutrogena’s Skin360 app and the magnifying lens required to scan your skin. Olay’s Skin Advisor appears to be one of the few free-to-use A.I.-driven apps currently available.“All of these A.I. devices lead you to buy some kind of skin care. And if it’s working, that’s great,” Glaser says. “But what I see at my practice is that patients spend hundreds of dollars [on products that don’t work], and then they’ve delayed the opportunity to get better. People with true skin problems would be better served more quickly, accurately, and less expensively” if they went to see a dermatologist.A.I. expert de la Iglesia says there’s another issue: If these apps collect low-quality data (an image that’s too blurry, a question that wasn’t answered properly, or product reviews that are fake), a machine-learning algorithm does not work properly. “I think that the collected data could be of low quality, and so [could] the predictions,” de la Iglesia says.A.I. is making an impact, however, on the detection of skin diseases. Glaser says there are already devices in dermatology offices that use A.I. technology to help doctors detect skin cancer and determine whether a biopsy is needed. As the technology becomes more accurate, it might even be applicable for consumer use.While these apps may provide a good starting point for people who are new to skin care, I wouldn’t use them again unless I was looking to buy a product from the brands that offer them (say, I needed help choosing between different Olay moisturizers). The aim to help consumers select products that are more likely to fix their skin problems is a lofty goal, but in my many years of experimenting, I’ve found which ingredients work for me and which ones don’t — and I’m not sure that an app can be better at selecting products than I am.The Center for American Politics and Design built an archive of every 2018 campaign logo, and its banality is disorienting. In a moment of such division and upheaval, how can the visual landscape remain so uniform?You might notice that there are a few differences in the details. Democrats use slightly more purple, with a near monopoly from the women in the party. Democrats use a bit more blue, Republicans use a bit more red. Etc.When you take a step back, the difference is a matter of degree. Some individual logos may obviously belong to one party or the other — especially if they use purple or green — but collectively, it’s a wash. After all, both sides are equally into serifs, and lord knows how much typography matters.You might wonder if this relates to voter apathy. I do. Many people opt out of the political process because they don’t see a difference between the two major parties. Based on their visual identities, that’s an understandable reaction.By contrast, we’re visually tuned into many other parts of life. We’re surrounded by logos and other symbols that help us define our preferences every time we shop. Some logos stand for who we are and who we want to be, even if the product itself is only a pair of shoes or a phone.Many civic institutions also use visual patterns to great effect. New Mexico has exquisite license plates, for example. The national Great Seal is iconic, even if it’s not quite in step with the latest design trends. (Though you never know, flat design comes in cycles.)It’s also ubiquitous in political movements around the world — old communist propaganda is still recognizable generations later, and the color yellow recently took center stage in Catalonia. A few recent American presidential campaigns have leaned on design as well. Obama’s visual language captured his message and encouraged millions of young to people care about politics for the first time (McCain’s didn’t even try).Clinton’s campaign worked with a highly esteemed designer to develop a winsome, witty, and vaguely corporate logo. Trump used Times New Roman and ALL CAPS to convey his point of view and attitude.Apparently you don’t need access to expensive professionals or publicity consultants to build a compelling visual language. All of this makes it even more striking that, as a whole, our political parties are not visually distinct.Is it good or bad that the parties look so alike? I can’t say. People look for visual clues to make sense of the world, and these logos don’t offer much help. On the other hand, politicians aren’t luxury phones, and strong imagery can be used to fuel division. The commonalities also speak to a set of shared values, which are every bit as real as the points of divergence.Take some time to explore the archive. It’s a fascinating resource, and filled with riddles about the moment you live in. What do you notice?Even more than Big Dick Energy or binge watching Queer Eye, this year’s hottest trend may be threatening to quit Facebook. In March, following the news that political data group Cambridge Analytica had gained access to private user information to create targeted ads ahead of the 2016 election, the hashtag #DeleteFacebook circulated widely on Twitter. In September, people once again took up the rallying cry when Facebook suffered another massive security breach affecting 50 million users.According to a recent Pew Research Center survey, 54 percent of Facebook users ages 18 and older have adjusted their privacy settings in the past year, 42 percent have curbed their Facebook usage, and 26 percent have deleted the app from their phone. But the simplest security fix — just leaving the network altogether — may also be the hardest to execute successfully.For all its flaws, Facebook is still be an integral part of many people’s lives, acting as a lifeline to faraway relatives, a trove of professional opportunities, a connection to the neighborhood, or a digital map of experiences lived. Plus, with all the ancillary apps that require (or provide the convenience of) Facebook logins, like Spotify, Tinder, and Airbnb, quitting can feel like fighting your way out of an impossibly tangled web.If you truly want to leave the platform without a trace, you’ll need to put in some effort. Here’s how to do it.A specific post, reaction to a news event, or cumulation of cringey online behavior from friends and family may be the straw that breaks the camel’s back. But as tempting as it may be to swear off Facebook then and there, don’t let yourself be fueled by emotion — without plotting out a solid course of action, you’re more likely to log back in, says Nithin Coca, a freelance journalist who took two months to plan his own Facebook exit. “I know a lot of people go cold turkey, and I feel like those people end up coming back on because they’re not ready for all the connections they’re going to lose,” he says.You may soon realize that the social network is your only point of contact with certain acquaintances and then break your ban to get in touch. Giving yourself time to assess your post-Facebook social needs and strategize accordingly is a sound way to ensure you won’t come crawling back.Coca recommends starting by cutting yourself off from just one way of accessing Facebook. Delete the app from your phone so you can get used to its absence in your day-to-day, or take the opposite approach and block the site on your personal and work computers.To help with the weaning process, Deanna Zandt, media technologist and author of Share This! How You Will Change the World with Social Networking, says it’s helpful to take a cue from former smokers who broke their habit in part by substituting other behaviors — in this case, maybe by becoming more active on Instagram (which is owned by Facebook) or Twitter. “When I quit smoking, I carried around a water bottle with a little nubby sucky thing on top and chewed on it,” Zandt says. “What’s your nubby thing for Facebook?”Make sure you’re not leaving the site empty-handed. For a complete catalog of all your Facebook info — embarrassing photos and revelatory Messenger conversations included — the network offers a service called Download Your Information. (Find it via Settings > Your Facebook Information > Download Your Information.) Here is where you can compress your posts, photos and videos, comments, likes, friends, messages, events, and more into one massive file, creating a log of info from the entire time you’ve been on Facebook or from whatever time period you specify.Unlink your profile from everything to prevent accidental backdoor Facebook logins or posts. First, tech lifestyle blogger Stephanie Humphrey suggests removing access from any prior devices you’ve used to log into Facebook, like “an old iPad you gave your cousin or a phone you had 10 years ago that you didn’t wipe completely but there’s a chance your info could be on it,” she says. Go to Settings > Security and Login to find a module of all the devices on which you’re currently signed in. Remove access from all.Next, you’ll want to disable any apps you might’ve connected to your Facebook account, like Spotify and Tinder, as well as websites that allow you to log in with a Facebook account, like Yelp and OpenTable. Go to Settings > Apps and Websites, then check all and press remove. (Be aware that you’ll have to create new logins for everything.)If you’re particularly concerned with any of these outside services holding onto your Facebook info, Humphrey suggests reaching out to each one individually to request the deletion of your data. “When you disconnect the apps that you’ve used Facebook to log into, they still retain information about you,” she says. “That becomes a data point they can then sell.”This is important because if you log into one of these linked apps using your Facebook credentials after deleting your account but before Facebook has actually deleted it (it’s a 30-day window — more on that later), your Facebook account could accidentally be reactivated, Zandt says.When Coca deleted his Facebook, he did a mass untagging of every photo on his page. If you want to take it even further, Humphrey says you can ask the person who posted the photo to remove it altogether if it depicts you in an unflattering light, since it will still live on the site even after you’re gone. The same goes for private messages; the other person will still have access to the transcript even when you’ve deleted your account. “If you really want to remove all of those connections,” Humphrey says, “you will have to go individually to those people.”Finally, rid yourself of friendship. Coca deleted each of his 600 Facebook friends individually. Those he hadn’t spoken to in years got a prompt deletion. For the connections he actually spoke to, he gave a heads up before cutting them loose to make sure he had an alternate way of contacting them. Coca also informed his network he’d be leaving Facebook with an announcement on his profile. If you really want to make sure enough people get the news, you can even follow up with multiple posts to ensure your message stays present in your connections’ feeds. Another effective route is to change your profile picture to a graphic mentioning the date you’ll be leaving Facebook, Zandt says.If you relied on Facebook to keep in touch with people, you’re going to have to step it up in other areas. Slack, Signal, and (Facebook-owned) WhatsApp are fan favorites for encrypted and group chat. For a more old-school approach, send emails, start text conversations, or become a more prolific caller. Even more antiquated: You could always try writing letters.Losing Facebook means forgoing a daily reminder of your friends’ birthdays. As you’re unfriending, transcribe important contacts’ birthdays into a hard-copy calendar or a digital one like Google or iCal.Don’t be offended if friends forget your birthday or if you miss a few event invites. “Most everyone forgot my birthday the first year after I quit because everyone relies on Facebook,” Coca says. Similarly, you might miss out on a few parties or other gatherings simply because the host forgot that you had no way of getting the Facebook invite.And without Facebook, you’ll lose what Zandt calls “ambient awareness,” the ability to passively stay up to date on your friends’ lives through their posts. Luckily, there are plenty of other social networks to fill the void. But depending on the social media habits of the people in your life, keeping yourself in the know might take a little more effort than it used to.If you need a Facebook account to manage a business account, or if you can’t say goodbye to a neighborhood or professional networking group, there’s an easy fix: Create a dummy profile with a fake display name, no friends, and no info.Once you’ve hit the delete button — don’t confuse “delete” with “deactivate,” which hides your profile but doesn’t remove it entirely — Facebook gives you a 30-day window to change your mind (until recently, this grace period was two weeks, but it doubled following the September data breach). If you log in during this period or use a third-party app that has a connected Facebook login, you can choose to cancel your deletion. After the window elapses, Facebook then starts to delete your data, which could take up to 90 more days. So sit tight and do your best to resist temptation.Yesterday, Brian Kemp engaged in the most clear-cut, unapologetic voter suppression tactics we’ve seen in a long time. 53,000 voters were stripped from the rolls. Incessant robo-calls to Georgian voters falsely accused his opponent, Stacey Abrams, of encouraging undocumented immigrants to vote. He promoted a false narrative of Black Panthers intimidating voters at the polls, using years-old photographs as evidence. Georgians showed up to poll centers that were closed, had run out of ballots, and in some cases even lacked the power cords to get their machines going. Three-hour wait times were the norm, which sent many voters packing.Brian Kemp unapologetically—and loudly—suppressed, lied to, and discriminated against Georgian voters. His tactics worked so well, even he himself had trouble voting. Given his position as Secretary of State, everyone knew he had the power to tamper with the election, but few thought he’d dare cross his constituents with such outlandish bravado.The city of Atlanta experienced the brunt of these polling issues. If you think that’s a coincidence, take a look at the map below from CNN. Atlanta is a stronghold for Abrams supporters in this election.For years, dishonest candidates have chosen subtler approaches to voter suppression for fear of public rejection. From gerrymandering to making registration more difficult to pushing debunked theories of undocumented voters, candidates (often Republicans) have used fear to stop voters from going to the polls.No matter the tactics, the question remains: If you thought you were going to win fairly, why would you want to suppress the vote?Brian Kemp is showing the U.S., and anyone thinking about running in 2020, that as long as you’re ruthless enough you can still cheat your way to a win in America. Even if people watch you do it.But voter suppression wasn’t the only weapon in Kemp’s arsenal. He also fanned the flames of racism with links to images of armed black men at the polls. In Florida, Andrew Gillum — a black man who ran against a white opponent beloved by racists — lost a tight gubernatorial race. Racism and voter suppression aren’t things of the past, they’re alive and well. But that doesn’t mean it’s time to lose hope — as we look forward to 2020, this simply means it’s time to put the gloves back on.The Democrats did take control of the House of Representatives, gaining the ability to provide oversight the likes of which President Trump has never seen. The House’s blue wave was a repudiation of our president, and many historically impenetrable Republican incumbents were shaken in close races. These tight races should give us hope. Remember: fear is what they want you to feel. Hope is the antidote.Instead of allowing Kemp’s strategy to be a blueprint for how to cheat an election win, let it be a warning shot before 2020: We can’t let these tactics affect election day. Laws must be passed, voters must get angry. If you thought Kemp wouldn’t go as far as he did to silence you, you were wrong. Let’s not be wrong in 2020.This piece is the personal opinion of the writer, and doesn’t reflect the opinions of WIRED or any former employers.She wants to garden, she has studied the concept of love, and she dreams of pizza. BINA48, as you might guess from her name, is not a human, but a robot. There’s something else that makes BINA48 truly distinct, and it has nothing to do with her predilections for human ephemera. Of the small collection of robo-celebrities making the late-night talk show rounds, BINA48 is the only black-presenting one of the bunch. And as social robots continue to creep into the mainstream, her presence isn’t just increasingly necessary — it’s potentially the linchpin to the development of a more diverse society of robots.Creating the world’s first and only black humanoid robot was not the impetus for BINA48’s inception. A bodyless bust with a lifelike head and shoulders, BINA48 was manufactured by Hanson Robotics and is owned and operated by the Terasem Movement Foundation, an organization researching the possibility of uploading one’s likeness onto “consciousness software” for afterlife preservation. Designed as a research project, BINA48 gets her personality, appearance, and namesake from Bina Rothblatt, a real human and co-founder of the Terasem Movement, who uploaded hundreds of hours’ worth of her memories, thoughts, and beliefs to give BINA48 her foundation. In other words, the robot’s skin color was happenstance.“The reason BINA48 ended up being African-American is that she’s based on an African-American woman,” says Bruce Duncan, managing director of Terasem. “We were not actually trying to make BINA48 a spokesperson for all black people.”Regardless, BINA48 has become an emblem of the issue of representation in A.I., opening up the question of who will be replicated in robot form, and why?It is well-documented that A.I. programs of all stripes inherit the gender and racial biases of their creators on an algorithmic level, turning well-meaning machines into accidental agents of discrimination. But it turns out we also inflict our biases onto robots. A recent study led by Christoph Bartneck, a professor at the Human Interface Technology Lab at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand, found that not only are the majority of home robots designed with white plastic, but we also actually have a bias against the ones that are coated in black plastic. The findings were based on a shooter bias test, in which participants were asked to perceive threat level based on a split-second image of various black and white people, with robots thrown into the mix. Black robots that posed no threat were shot more than white ones.“The only thing that would motivate their bias [against the robots] would be that they would have transferred their already existing racial bias to, let’s say, African-Americans, onto the robots,” Bartneck told Medium. “That’s the only plausible explanation.”These types of biases also turn up when it comes to gender. In Singapore, a study of 198 young adults found that respondents felt more comfortable with the idea of a security robot gendered male and a housecleaning robot gendered female. And already, our widespread A.I. assistants, like Siri and Alexa, have been given female personas.Social robots like BINA48, which are designed to one day be our companions and helpers, are not only typically female but also tend to reinforce gender and racial stereotypes: Sophia — arguably the most famous social robot — was designed with the “classic beauty” of Audrey Hepburn in mind, according to her creators at Hanson Robots; Erica, a Japanese robot created by Hiroshi Ishiguro Laboratories, has been called “the most beautiful robot in the world” and sports a doll-like physique and style; and Jia Jia, developed at the University of Science and Technology of China, was inspired by an old story about a fairy who surprises her master with a clean home and hot meals. Jia Jia is also dressed in Han-style clothing, a growing fashion movement in China based on nationalist ideologies.Unlike Sophia, Erica and Jia Jia are not white, but they still conform to their culture’s majority race. And though a reality where social robots act as our daily companions is far off, Bartneck argues that if the field doesn’t incorporate diversity now, it will suffer the same issues that established industries are currently struggling to correct.“We see ourselves in these robots,” he says.BINA48 is leading the charge in this regard, and she is joined by a few other rebel robots. Alter, developed by roboticists Hiroshi Ishiguro and Takashi Ikegami of Japan, appears to be gender neutral, with a silicone face and arms and exposed body. Unlike Ishiguro’s other robots (including Erica), Alter was designed with a minimal humanistic appearance and persona in order to focus on the movement of its mechanical body. Then there’s Matsuko-roid, Japan’s cross-dressing TV show host robot based on human TV personality Matsuko Deluxe.Like BINA48, the elements that make Alter and Matsuko-roid diverse and unique were not the elements that drove their creation. Instead, their gender-nonconforming personas were happenstance, much like the racial biases built into Google’s image-recognition algorithm that identified African-Americans as “gorillas” were happenstance. And that’s the problem: In the absence of a conscious decision to fight bias, bias creeps in.“Instead of leaving this to some sort of randomness, why don’t you just take control and steer it in the right direction?” Bartneck says. “That is a responsibility that robotic developers have to pick up and work on.”Though BINA48 was never meant to be a spokesperson for identity politics, her creators are embracing the fact that she has become just that. The android started her digital life knowing very little of the racial history she inadvertently found herself in. (When asked by artist and activist Stephanie Dinkins, who is working on a project stemming from her conversations with BINA48, if she had experienced racism, BINA48 somewhat nonsensically replied, “I actually didn’t have it.”) Now, however, the real Bina is uploading more information about her history as a black woman onto BINA48, and Duncan, the managing director at Terasem, is working with Dinkins and prominent black celebrities, including Whoopi Goldberg and Morgan Freeman, to support the development of her identity.“When we’re building the architecture of our A.I. future, this is the time to make sure it’s healthy and representative and diverse,” Duncan says. “Not representing the diversity that we are as a species is like saving only four plants out of a rainforest. We’re doing a huge injustice to our own health and well-being if we don’t try to preserve the diversity in the world around us.”Malka Older’s new speculative novel, State Tectonics, imagines a radically different world order from the one we know: Instead of residing in sovereign nation states, citizens of Older’s world opt in and out of small, distributed, heterogeneous communities based on their preferences. Some people want a hard line on crime, others prioritize universal health care and education, and still others seek out laissez-faire corporate governance. There’s something for everyone, and if you don’t like it, you can always switch. The entire system is stitched together by “Information,” a massive and highly bureaucratic organization that provides ubiquitous digital infrastructure, fact checks content, and monitors elections. Just like Google, Facebook, and Amazon fight for users today, in Older’s world, a diverse set of governments built atop Information constantly vie to attract citizens.But even the most well-designed systems can be subverted, and within Information, numerous factions are trying to do just that: circumventing Information’s panopticon, spying on each other, hacking the system, and sowing misinformation—all in the service of seizing power. In the midst of this churning geopolitical maelstrom, a diverse cast of spies, activists, and technocrats struggle to untangle these complex machinations even as they begin to question fundamental aspects of the world they inhabit.State Tectonics, which wraps up Older’s critically acclaimed Centenal Cycle series, may be science fiction, but its speculations are eerily relevant. Reading it, one can’t help but think of current refugee crises, the rise of reactionary nationalism, the inevitability of accelerating data breaches, and the terrifying brinkmanship so evident in Washington. But unlike the bleak scenarios played out in Black Mirror, Older’s world is nuanced, not dystopic, assuring us that even in the midst of disaster, it’s still possible to make a difference with a combination of luck, hard work, and compassion.When she’s not crafting fictional futures, Older tries to unravel the toughest political problems of the present. As an aid worker with Mercy Corps, she has more than a decade of experience leading humanitarian and development projects and responding to complex emergencies and natural disasters in places like Darfur, Sri Lanka, and Indonesia. In 2015, she was named a senior fellow for technology and risk at the Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs, and her political science research focuses on how governments respond to crisis.I recently corresponded with Older about her book and the hidden forces shaping the future of democracy.Malka Older: Technology has always affected the structure and flow of political power, giving advantage to the more tech-savvy politicians or sometimes to those who accidentally fell into the sweet spot for a new type of communication. Think of Nixon’s five o’clock shadow during the first TV debate: not only did it affect that election, but it spawned an entire industry of consultants making politicians look their best on TV and pre-selecting the politicians who are able to do so.What’s interesting to me now is that we see technology being used to influence voters, as well as politicians. In a way that’s a hopeful sign—it means that voters do hold some power in our partial, very imperfect democracy.What we look at less, I think, is how power changes the structure and flow of technology. It’s easy to assume that technological “progress” unfolds in a mostly linear and inevitable way, but that’s far from true. Some technologies that were possible have not been [widely] adopted because of [entrenched] power, like the electric car. Or because of collective action, like nuclear power, which is less widely used than was expected half a century ago. Imagine all the potential technologies that haven’t been implemented because their inventors weren’t in a position to get venture capitalists interested, and then think about the power and interests driving the technologies we use today.The most pernicious misconception about democracy is that we are living in one, and I’m not talking about only the U.S. We should never consider our governance system done; we can always work to make it better and more adapted to the moment.As for the forces shaping our democracy, on the one hand we have path dependence and vested interests, as the powerful move to consolidate their power and double down on the existing systems that they already know how to game. On the other hand, we can see that the fragmentation of information sources is affecting the entire discourse. A democracy depends on the voters’ decisions, and anyone’s decisions are only as good as the information they are based on. Information manipulation—lies, spins, rumors—have always been used, but poor and discriminatory education policies and increasingly sophisticated techniques seem to have made it particularly effective today.We can start by being more intentional about our institutions and trying to build them more democratically, rather than ceding them to the powerful. From history (and science fiction—most of it, anyway), we can learn not to search for a single perfect institution, but to leave room for evolution and change.The danger with narrative disorder is that we see what we expect to see; we start to believe the story arcs that we ingest over and over again. To take a relatively simple example, casting directors and character actors collude for our version of physiognomy: We have an image of what the bad guy looks like, what the bureaucrat looks like, what the love interest looks like, what the best friend looks like. This can blind us to people’s actual attributes.On the other hand, since a lot of people act as if they’re in the stories they’ve read/watched, narrative disorder can sometimes give us an intuition for how people will behave.As for how I manage my own narrative disorder: not well, I’d say. Mostly I feed it novels at a rate of several per week, mostly accessed through overdrive jockeying. But I work hard to fight the tendency toward tropes in my own writing.I started with some pending problems that I had to solve, left over from Null States. I knew that I wanted Maryam to be a main point of view character; one of the things I’m really pleased with about this trilogy is the range of female experience I was able to show. I’m actually looking back into my notes file to remember what else I had early on… I was interested in spies, microculture, some generational experience, counter-forces to Information. But from there, I just kept writing and figured it out little by little. I came up with the very last scene fairly early on, but I was 95 percent done before I knew exactly how I got there.Autonomous by Annalee Newitz, The City in the Middle of the Night by Charlie Jane Anders, the Murderbot books by Martha Wells, the Imperial Radch trilogy and Provenance by Ann Leckie, Prey of the Gods by Nicky Drayden, After the Flare by Deji Olukotun. Also Ninth Step Station, the serial I created for Serial Box and co-wrote with Fran Wilde, Curtis Chen, and Jaqueline Koyanagi. Right now I’m slowly reading The Cooking Gene, I don’t know if it’s changed my mind about anything, but it’s teaching me a lot.Today’s internet is bland. Everything looks the same: generic fonts, no layouts to speak of, interchangeable pages, and an absence of expressive visual language. Even micro-typography is a mess.Web design today seems to be driven by technical and ideological constraints rather than creativity and ideas. Every page consists of containers in containers in containers; sometimes text, sometimes images. Nothing is truly designed, it’s simply assumed.Ironically, today’s web technologies have enormous design capabilities. We have the capability to implement almost every conceivable idea and layout. We can create radical, surprising, and evocative websites. We can combine experimental typography with generative images and interactive experiences.And yet, even websites for designers are based on containers in containers in containers. The most popular portals for creatives on the web — Dribbble and Behance — are so fundamentally boring they’re basically interchangeable. (See lead image.)How did this happen?There are a few reasons. Technological frameworks like Content Management Systems (CMS) and blogging platforms like WordPress are based on templates. Web pages on these frameworks are not individually crafted but generated on the fly by piecing together various media types like images, headlines, body text, and videos. Templates are not designs. Rather, they are rules for combining related data types. Beyond the template, these platforms typically offer users no way to influence a page’s visual appearance. What you see is what you poured into the template.In other words, templates are content agnostic. And that is the problem.One of the fundamental principles of design is a deep and meaningful connection between form and content; form should both reflect and shape content. Separating them breaks this principle and creates generic content containers. In a design sense, templates are meaningless; the form adds nothing to the content.There are plenty of other reasons for web design’s lack of creativity. Most of them are economic and pragmatic. For example, it’s time-consuming to design individual pages. Considering the speed of online news and the frequency of new articles, large websites simply do not have the resources to design a page from the ground up. Furthermore, web design is still a matter of technical expertise: HTML, JavaScript, and CSS remain challenging tools for designers. There’s no web design equivalent to the direct and obliging workflows of desktop publishing applications.I suspect designers’ creative and intellectual laziness is to blame, too. In the age of mobile-first, generic, framework-driven development, nobody seems to bother with the visual and contextual integrity of a web page.How can we tackle this challenge? What can expressive and avant-garde websites look like today?Sometimes, if you want to design the future, you have to rediscover the past.I designed my first website about 23 years ago at the research and development group at the University of the Arts in Bremen, Germany. Creating web pages was hot at the time. The web was young. Pages sparked my imagination.In the mid-nineties, we were struggling with the constraints of HTML. We could only use web-safe fonts like Arial, Times, or Verdana. We had to use table layouts, monospaced fonts, or GIFs if we wanted to do anything exciting. HTML was purely content-driven initially, and we had to work against the technology in order to design a page.At the same time, experimental typography was exploding. From Jan Tschichold’s Die Neue Typographie in the twenties to the computer-driven layouts by April Greiman in the eighties, designers challenged the status quo and tried to find a visual language that represented the ideas and revolutions of their eras. By the mid-nineties, an unusual combination of technological and cultural advancements allowed for a very radical breed of graphic design. You could see it in the work of Irma Boom, David Carson, Paula Scher, Neville Brody, and many others.Compared to the visual explosion of the graphic design world, however, early web pages were still fairly lame. (The Web Design Museum documents this very well.)We wanted to do graphic design in the browser, but nobody knew how — or what mistakes could be made. There were no expectations of how a web page should look. There were no standards. No CMS (almost), no CSS, no JS, no video, no animation.Fast forward to 2018, and we can do everything in a browser. From massive-scale layouts to micro-typography, animation, and video. And what do we do with these incredible possibilities? Containers in containers in containers. Gigabytes of visually bland mobile-first pages contaminated with JavaScript. Generic templates that follow the same visual rules. If my younger self could have seen the state of web design 23 years later, he would have been very disappointed.Web design’s problem is not the limits of technology but the limits of our imagination. We’ve become far too obedient to visual conformity, economic viability, and assumed expectations.However, every crisis creates an opportunity. Now is as good a time as any to challenge the internet’s visual conformity. Alas, I am too old and too bourgeois to come up with a radical, experimental, and state-of-the-art approach to web design. But I can ask my students to do it.In 2017, I gave a web design class at the Interface Design Programme in Potsdam, Germany. Each team was asked to come up with a redesign for an existing website. The assignment was very clear: Treat the browser as a blank canvas and create expressive, imaginative visual experiences. Use the technological potential of current web technologies as a channel for your creativity. Do not be constrained by questions of usability, legibility, and flexibility. Have an attitude. Disregard Erwartungskonformität.I was very happy with the outcome of the class. (You can see all the results on this overview page.) Here are four projects that represent different approaches to the challenge.Frederic and Jonas chose the web site of the Zentrum für Kunst und Medien (ZKM) as a starting point for their experiments and explorations. A very fitting choice as the ZKM is one of the most prominent exhibition spaces for media art in Germany but ZKM’s website is fairly conventional. It’s functional but it lacks the avant-garde assertion that is conveyed by artwork in the exhibitions.Frederic and Jonas’s aim was to design a concept, a visual language, and a technical setup for the ZKM site that represents the museum’s progressive approach. At the core of their concept is a generative design engine: Every time a page loads, a new layout is created.Streem is an art and street magazine. It is both a stage for upcoming artists and a platform for social issues. Streem includes work from illustration, painting, photography, design, writing, and journalism. Daria, Bela, and Lucas combined these different influences and based their designs on a conceptual city structure. For their prototype, they created four different neighborhoods that each represent a section of the magazine. Their approach combines strong illustrative styles with spatial typography in order to create a legible city.Amelie and Fabian took a very structural approach. Instead of finding an adequate form for a specific story, their aim was to dissolve a web page and break it down to semantic, syntactical, and statistical properties. Their idea was to demonstrate the fluidity and inherent malleability of HTML. They deconstructed Medium posts and created an environment that allows readers to break long blocks of text into experimental typographic space.Fabian and Florian turned Hacker News into an interactive visualization. The social media site is a news aggregator, focusing on computer science and information technology. Its design is bare-bones but it has complex functionality for voting and discussions. Fabian and Florian have taken the existing structure and turned it into a typographic space of timelines and networks. The visual presentation is based on the sequence and connections of news and comments. They also connected their design to the API of Hacker News, so you can actually use it to read the site. View the redesign of Hacker News.David Carson once said, “don’t confuse communication with legibility.” We should apply this advice to the current state of web design. Legibility, usability, responsiveness, and especially accessibility are essential qualities of the modern web. But they should not define and limit its visual repertoire. If you equate stereotypes with usability, you have understood neither visual design nor human-centered design.I, for one, would like to see more radical, generative, evocative, thoughtful, adequate, content-specific, and intelligent web design. I would like to rediscover the web as a space for design experiments. I would like to be surprised more often. I don’t know what the web will look in another 23 years, but I certainly hope it doesn’t look like the web today.From where I grew up on Division Avenue in Washington, D.C., it was eight blocks to the East Capitol Library. The route was through the Lincoln Heights Houses, a notorious public housing project, but I walked it by myself at least once a week. This was the late 1980s; bullet casings and baggies littered the ground. Crack never came in vials in my neighborhood.At East Capitol, I escaped that reality. I traveled the world: China, England, Africa. I listened in wonder to stories of the great ancient library at Alexandria in Egypt, which in my mind was a hundred stories tall and where all the sailors came to find maps of the world. I checked out children’s versions of classics and read them at night, wrapped in my sheet on the floor. There were so many drive-bys, I was afraid a stray bullet might come through the window and hit me if I slept up high in my bed.I thought, The world is so big. It’s full of ideas and people. I can go anywhere. I can do anything. I can be anyone I want.It didn’t happen. At 17, I killed a man in a confrontation. I was sentenced to life in prison with no hope of parole. I sat on my bunk that day, in my solitary confinement cell, and cried, because my life was over.About a year later, I noticed an inmate named Steve. He was a lifer like me, in since 15, but he read books every day, all day. One day, I asked what he was reading. He showed me a book on computer coding. I laughed in his face. We didn’t even have computers at Patuxent in those days. Who was he fooling?But I admired his persistence, and I admired his optimism. Steve didn’t care what other people thought. He didn’t care about the odds. Despite his impossible sentence, he was determined to make something of his life.So I started reading. Not computer coding! I read about entrepreneurs like Mark Cuban. I read about historical figures like Frederick Douglass, Leonardo da Vinci, and Napoleon. I loved Napoleon, because he was an outsider like me. Nobody wanted him. But he went to a library and learned everything there was to know about military tactics so he’d be ready when they couldn’t deny him anymore.I read self-help books, too, like Leil Lowndes’ How to Talk to Anyone. Other prisoners laughed at me: “What, Chris, you don’t know how to talk?”I said, “I’m improving myself, inside and out. I’m improving my body and my mind. You should too. Just because you’re in here doesn’t mean you can’t do great things.”Steve became more than my best friend. He became my brother. We got cells across from each other and exchanged books through the bars. My family wrote me off. My mom said, “You got life. What’s the point?” and stopped answering my calls. Steve’s parents took me in. They offered to spend $50 a month on things I needed. It was the first spending money I ever had. I asked them to buy me books. I kept the best ones on a shelf in my cell. The rest I loaned out to other inmates or gave to the prison library.Eventually, I got my GED. Then Steve and I convinced the prison to start a college program. In college, we had full access to the prison library. I lived in that library. I lived for that library. It took me everywhere: deep into outer space, deep into history, and even deeper into myself. I’ve probably spent more than 10,000 hours in the Patuxent library. I’m practically a librarian!Steve and I didn’t read alone. Other prisoners saw us and were inspired. So we started the Book Crushers, where we challenged each other to read the most books each month. (I was number one for more than five years in a row.) Around 2005, I started a book club. I put together a list of books I wanted and wrote letters to hundreds of organizations and famous people I read about in magazines asking if they would donate one of those books to the Patuxent library. Can you imagine how special that was to hear the library got a new book and realize it was one I asked for, and that someone donated it because of me?I didn’t just live for that library. I lived because of that library. The Patuxent prison library saved me from crushing despair. It saved hundreds of other guys, too.I won’t tell you where I am now. You’ll have to read that in my book! But I will tell you that I read at least one book every week. No matter the circumstances, I make the time. Learning is a lifetime affliction, y’all. Once you catch the bug, you’ll never want to stop.I tell everyone to make a master plan for their lives. That’s what got me through the toughest times: a plan and a goal. Your first goal should be to read at least one book every single week.People often ask about my favorite book. It’s 500 Spanish Verbs, a book I carried with me every day for more than four years while I taught myself the language. (I’m fluent in Italian, too.) For me, that book is a symbol of my hard work and commitment.But there’s another story that has stuck with me since childhood. One day, during story time at the East Capitol Library, a librarian read us Plato’s “Allegory of the Cave.” It’s about a group of people chained in a cave, where all they can see are shadows on the wall. They believe those shadows are the whole world, and they argue over those shadows, and they make those shadows their lives. Then, one day, a man escapes, and he goes to the surface, and he sees the real world: blue sky, green trees, warm sun. He’s so blinded by the beauty and possibilities that all he can do is cry.That story exploded in my nine-year-old brain. I checked out Plato’s “Allegory of the Cave” (children’s version, with illustrations) that same day, and I read it over and over again, night after night, wrapped in a sheet on my bedroom floor. Outside, it was automatic gunfire and squealing tires. That’s the sound I remember most from my childhood: squealing tires. But inside, I felt the exhilaration of freedom.Because Plato’s story was about me. I was living in a cave. My whole world was my neighborhood. But I knew — I just knew — I was the man who was getting out.We’re all in a cave. You don’t have to live your life in a cage like I did to be limited by your experiences. Our physical worlds are small. But there’s a way out, y’all. It’s called a library, and it’s available to everyone. No child is too poor. No winter day is too cold. No cell is locked too tight. No matter who you are and where you are, your library is the door to a bigger and better world.Open it.More than a decade ago, an editor at the literary journal n+1 asked if I wanted to write about the largest mass murder in American history, which had occurred a few days previously at a college in Virginia. I resented the implication of his request. The implication was that there was something about that episode that would be particularly salient to me. I resented the implication because it was true.The implication was that we shared something in common, the Virginia Tech killer and I. We were both the children of immigrants from Korea. We were both Asian men in America. Some things that were true then about Asian men in America remain true today: We have the highest educational attainment of any group in America. We have the lowest rate of incarceration. And we have the highest median income in America. So those were a couple of the things I shared in common with the Virginia Tech shooter. We were both part of that fortunate fraction of the American public enrolled in higher education, a part of a busily striving cohort slated to earn a comfortable living in a society that increasingly rewarded the educated and punished the uneducated. We both lived in a society that welcomed diversity, propagandized on its behalf, prided itself on transcending its origins in slavery and genocide. We were both the children of immigrants in a nation of immigrants.Was that all I had in common with the Virginia Tech killer? The implication I resented was that I would know something, just a little — or maybe a little bit more than a little — about what animated the Virginia Tech killer. I would know this simply because of what we shared in common that extended beyond the high rate of educational attainment, and the low rate of incarceration, that characterized the category of people like ourselves in the aggregate. What we shared in common was that we both had Asian faces.On the one hand, the Virginia Tech killer was mentally ill. I did not know what it was like to suffer from a clinical condition that culminates in an act of destructive malevolence on a grand scale. On the other hand, the Virginia Tech killer had succumbed to resentment, a much more widely distributed condition, and maybe one that I knew something about. Is that what you’re implying? I demanded to know of my editor. I did not receive a reply.What we were presumed to share in common — and this was the implication that I resented, because it was both true and unspeakable — was the peculiar burden of nonrecognition, of invisibility, that is a condition of being an Asian man in America. You could say, as many have before and since, that we are unused to seeing such faces in the movies and on TV, which was true then, though such a grievance was a poor proxy for the deeper injury that it named: that this face was, in our culture, a kind of cipher, a void, and all the more so to those of us who had to confront it gazing back at us from a reflected surface.Was this a real condition or just my own private hallucination? By this I mean something that has in recent years escaped from the obscurity in which it was once shrouded, even as it was always the most salient of all facts, the one most readily on display, the thing that was unspeakable precisely because it need never be spoken: that as the bearer of an Asian face in America, you paid some incremental penalty, never absolute but always omnipresent, that meant that you were by default unlovable and unloved; that you were presumptively a nobody, a mute and servile figure, distinguishable above all by your total incapacity to threaten anyone; that you were many laudable things that the world might respect and reward, but that you were fundamentally powerless to affect anyone in a way that would make you either loved or feared.What was the epistemological status of such an extravagant assertion? Could it possibly be true? Could it survive empirical scrutiny? It was a dogmatic statement at once unprovable and unfalsifiable. It was a paranoid statement about the way others regarded you that couldn’t possibly be true in any literal sense. It had no real truth value, except that under certain conditions, one felt it with every fiber of one’s being to be true. The warm light of day seemed to annul it, reducing this sense to the most lukewarm of all personal conundrums, “Asian-American identity”; the racial grievance least likely to receive, or to deserve, any public recognition, the most readily treated with ironic ridicule. The dark inwardness of nightmare could conjure it back to life: Seung-Hui Cho was the projection of that nightmare, even as he was also a real person who took actual lives.The bulk of the 10,000-word essay that I wrote was composed in Gmail in one feverish night. My editors and I then proceeded to spend the better part of the next six weeks trying to qualify and contextualize it, to soften its hard edges and indigestible elements, to bring order and structure and coherence to its digressive dream logic. In the end, we decided to retain the piece’s rawness and leave its many loose ends dangling.It was in many ways an indefensible piece of writing — sprawling, fragmented, bristling with insinuations in the place of argument. It took monstrous liberties, making Cho and his transgressions into a proxy, and a foil. It was about the banality of radical evil, and a strange compound of resentment and entitlement that had accrued in the heart of one young man and caused him to wage war against being itself. It read the manifesto that he circulated to the media in advance of his act as one expression of a fantasy of a mass insurrection that he would summon into being through his act. The manifesto posited the existence of an army of other losers like himself, denied recognition and rendered invisible, who would someday attain class consciousness and leave behind their abjection through violent, coordinated action to subdue the world to their will, or die fighting. And it seems to me today that it bears revisiting primarily as part of the prehistory of our present moment.In the successive decade, we’ve grown accustomed to a news cycle punctuated by such acts of motiveless malignity; typically perpetrated by young men, sometimes inspired by religion, sometimes by race, sometimes by the hatred of women, sometimes by the intersection of each and all. All the rhetorical moves and countermoves in which various partisans frame these eruptions as part of their political agendas are by now routinized, virtually algorithmic. Some blame toxic masculinity, the thwarted entitlement of men; others the ready availability of guns; still others the insufficiency of mental health care. Some invoke the specter of nihilism.I think about the struggle for recognition. In the successive decade, we’ve seen the power of the print media and its responsible gatekeepers broken by its digital successor, and the creation of a virtual agon in which the demand for recognition by the hitherto subordinate — by women and minorities — becomes a bid for precedence against those who had always taken it for granted. In the successive decade, the struggle against “racism” and “sexism” shifted rhetorically to a struggle against “whiteness” and “masculinity.” This rhetorical shift may have started as the contagious adoption of trendy lingo on social media, but the underlying concept has spread along with the verbal tic: that there is no whiteness independent of domination of nonwhites, and there is no masculinity whose constitutive predicate is not the domination of women. There is therefore no such thing as reforming, accommodating, or coming to terms with either. No one can hope to live free of oppression so long as these categories of being have not been eradicated.We’ve seen the emergence of a party of white male resentment, which, through coordinated online action, seeks to colonize minds and subdue the world to its will. This struggle over the racial and sexual constitution is at once covert, part of the hidden substructure of national politics and our collective life, and obscenely omnipresent, right out there in the open for all to see. My interest has always been in the place where sex and race are both obscenely conspicuous and yet consciously suppressed, largely because of the liminal place that the Asian man occupies in the midst of it: an “honorary white” person who will always be denied the full perquisites of whiteness; an entitled man who will never quite be regarded or treated as a man; a nominal minority whose claim to be a “person of color” deserving of the special regard reserved for victims is taken seriously by no one. In an age characterized by the politics of resentment, the Asian man knows something of the resentment of the embattled white man, besieged on all sides by grievances and demands for reparation, and something of the resentments of the rising social justice warrior, who feels with every fiber of their being that all that stands in the way of the attainment of their thwarted ambitions is nothing so much as a white man. Tasting of the frustrations of both, he is denied the entitlements of either.This condition of marginality is both the cause and the effect of his erasure — and perhaps the source of his claim to his centrality, indeed his universality. That lies at the end of a cultural project that has scarcely even begun; at best, we can sketch the contours of what that might look like at some future date that might never arrive.When my parents told me we were moving to America, I pictured a carousel. Special, beguiling; a place where nothing bad ever happened. In my head, it was like a still photograph of something in motion. The lights were a warm streak of yellow, and the painted horses looked like they were dancing. I was nearly six, and the idea of flying across the world to a place like that was thrilling.This was the spirited creation of a child, sure, but one that had roots somewhere. I don’t know exactly where it came from, but I suspect that the allure of this country — the mythical American dream — is so relentlessly propagated that it managed to worm its way into the unvarnished brain of a small child. It remained fixed in my mind for a long time. Mostly, I leaned on it when my friends disparaged the country they were born in. “You’re lucky,” I used to insist. “People give up everything to make it to America.”And then I grew up, and the carousel broke down. It happened in fits, punctuated by national crises and a rising awareness of my own privilege here and all it afforded me and the position of others relative to me. It happened when I read books and essays, when I made friends, when I witnessed cruelty and did nothing to help. It happened as I filled in the lines of my own personhood, and I began to question what, exactly, personhood meant here in America and who was allowed to have it.The weight of how much the ideal had disintegrated settled itself between my shoulder blades on the day I became an American. My naturalization ceremony — held this past October, on a Friday too warm for the bright-red coat I wore — was ostensibly a salute to more than 140 immigrants. It was also an ominous celebration of nationalistic assimilation and vaguely funereal: I pledged my loyalty to America and left behind the place I came from. There would be no more slipping out of my Americanness when it suited me. The country’s sins were now indistinguishable from my own.Perversely, becoming a citizen presented me with a sense of security. That was one of the reasons I chose this moment in time to become a citizen, after all — not out of some patriotic desire to submerge myself in the American swamp, but because the swamp offered more protection than the shore.People often seem disappointed by this explanation. “That’s why you’re doing this now?” they’d ask, hoping, perhaps, that I was motivated by a sense of civic duty, or that I had gone crazy. But the simple answer, and the one I was loath to give, was that I wanted to feel safe. I wanted proof that I belonged here. I no longer wanted to be able to slip out of my Americanness — not because I considered it to be part of me, but because I didn’t want someone else to decide when it would happen next. Before I took this step, unease was at a constant simmer beneath the surface. My life was not entirely within my control; someone out there could make it hell if they wanted to.And yet the truth is that, growing up, I was always privileged enough to not worry about becoming an American citizen. It never felt like a necessity, and my parents waited almost as long as I did. We moved here because my father got a good job, which meant our immigration status was always relatively safe, and because I was a kid, my parents jumped through all the hoops for me. Until now, I never had to reckon with any of this.It also became a point of secret, mulish pride. I didn’t want to give in. Doing so felt like letting go of some essential part of me — the part that wasn’t from here, that never felt wholly at home, that had always considered herself stuck between two worlds. Citizenship seemed like it would be a fundamental, irreparable transformation of my identity. Maybe I would welcome that someday, but I wanted to be sure about it. Instead, I did it because I felt like I had no other choice. I did it so that if I ever moved away, I had a way back. I did it out of a vague sense of unease, which is, bitterly, the most perfectly American thing of all.It’s also ludicrous. I’m white. My accent is so neutral that I could be a virtual assistant. I’m fluent in Americana. My path to citizenship didn’t involve fleeing violence or persecution. I didn’t risk my life or my family’s life. I haven’t lived in fear of deportation. I don’t get stopped at airports, and on the street, and in my home, and asked why I’m here. I blend in. And so it feels fraudulent to say that I want to be safe. It feels callous to boil down the prodigious step of becoming a citizen to flinty practicality and curdled cynicism when other people give everything they have to make it through a naturalization ceremony.A few weeks ago, a letter arrived in the mail from a county official — the same man who presided over my ceremony — congratulating me on becoming a citizen. He also took pains to castigate those who “take shortcuts,” as if that was a decision born out of laziness and duplicity rather than circumstance and necessity. I wanted to set the letter on fire. I know citizenship isn’t meaningless. I know it’s not just an empty token of appreciation from Uncle Sam. But it’s difficult to reconcile the practiced reverence with which it is treated with the feeling that I got lucky — because of where I came from, because of what I look like, because of what I sound like.These days, I try to remember the carousel. I try to parse what it meant to me and why it stayed with me for so long, even after it became clear that it was nothing more than a fantasy. I lean on what it represented — opportunity, promise, equity — and choose to see that in the things around me. There’s a boy in a tuxedo beaming in front of a massive American flag as someone in his family becomes a citizen. There are people who organize, agitate, and protest. There are candidates running for office who reject the notion of cruelty as the bedrock of policy. There’s the thrill I felt after voting today for the very first time in my life.I want to think about these things. Maybe that’s the migrant mentality: a conscious choice to believe that your new home is better. The sting of leaving the old one behind would be too much to bear otherwise.But then I come back to the catastrophes, recent and older, all with different shapes but the same rotten filling. Brett Kavanaugh, Pittsburgh, Charlottesville, Iraq, September 2008, Ferguson, November 2016. The horrific absurdity of listening to a tall man in a gray suit drone on about how immigrants reflect American values while the current administration punishes and humiliates immigrants of color at every turn. I get angry at myself for believing, again and again, in a myth.I wonder sometimes if this is just what it means to be American, this back-and-forth, this tension between what you hope for and what you know, deep down, to be true. Maybe it gets easier once you learn to walk the tightrope between these two poles, without flailing, without letting one or the other subsume you. I hope so.Six years ago, Facebook made the acquisition of a lifetime. Then it did something brilliant: nothing.Facebook left Instagram alone. The app was growing quickly, becoming more relevant each day, eating into rival Snapchat’s audience and threatening Facebook itself — just a few reasons why the tech giant dished out 10 figures for a company with no revenue.More than anything, Instagram was cool. Teenagers loved it. And Facebook was smart to keep its distance because its eight-year-old platform had started to feel decidedly uncool (especially with younger audiences).After the acquisition, Instagram founders Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger joined Facebook, and everything seemed peachy. By selling to one of the most powerful companies in the world, they immediately tapped into a massive audience and gained access to resources that the startup could’ve only dreamed about in its early days. Oh, and they became multimillionaires overnight. Life was good, and the future was bright.At the time, many critics mocked Facebook and argued it had severely overpaid for the camera app. However, the joke was on Instagram. It was far more than a camera app, and Facebook knew it.In 2013, Facebook began testing ads on Instagram with a small group of major brands, including Ben & Jerry’s, Burberry, Lexus, and Macy’s. In its official blog post announcing this move (which oddly is a link that requires a Tumblr login now), Instagram made it clear that the ads would seem organic and noninvasive: “Our aim is to make any advertisements you see feel as natural to Instagram as the photos and videos many of you already enjoy from your favorite brands.”Initially, the plan was to “start slow.” And for a while, they stayed true to their word. But then they saw the dollar signs that would inevitably make the $1 billion price tag look like a steal.While there wasn’t a lot of fanfare around this initial push, it’s clear that Facebook immediately understood the impact of their new money machine. My guess is that the early results for Instagram were pretty much earth-shattering in terms of revenue. They eventually introduced it as an optional placement within the Ads Manager platform in 2015, but that didn’t last long. Instagram quickly became a default placement for all new campaigns — unless the advertiser was savvy enough to manually deselect it.By September 2016, there were 500,000 active advertisers on Instagram (the question is how many were unknowingly doing so). Just one year later, this number quadrupled to more than 2 million advertisers on the network.According to some projections, Instagram is expected to drive the majority of Facebook’s ad revenue growth in the near future. And though Facebook has held onto a sizable share of global mobile ad revenue for a while now, this total figure is expected to nearly double between now and 2021.Today, Facebook openly encourages all businesses to run ads on Instagram. Inside Ads Manager, it is simply another delivery mechanism for ads. You don’t even need an Instagram account to run ads on the platform.Why? Because Instagram practically prints money. A casual scroll through an Instagram feed consistently reveals one paid post for every four organic posts. Few people, however, realize that 20% of the content they consume on Instagram (or Facebook, for that matter) is sponsored.And while more than 30% of the U.S. population uses Instagram today, the majority of American adults don’t even know that Facebook owns it. Earlier this year, Sarah Frier wrote an excellent piece about Instagram’s ability to remain unscathed during and after the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Culturally, Instagram has been able to maintain a charming image and dissociate itself from Facebook at every turn.In reality, all of the problems absorbed by Facebook are Instagram’s problems too. The latter channel has been injected into Facebook’s ad product for a long time, and the data used for advertising is the same, which means that any manipulative behavior on the larger platform (from Russia or otherwise) affects both of them. We can’t forget that Instagram also knows everything about us. Facebook has even been toying with the idea of using your Instagram location history for ad targeting.On the flip side, the Menlo Park company — despite its flaws — has every right to do what it wants with Instagram. It’s amazing how many people treat them like separate entities when they are one. Kara Swisher argues that Facebook desperately needed someone like Systrom who could stand up for Instagram, but let’s not forget that he sold his company to them. When you agree to get acquired, you give up your power.Facebook recently announced that Adam Mosseri, the executive formerly in charge of News Feed, will now lead the Instagram team. He is certainly a competent leader with plenty of experience, but the task that lies ahead might be insurmountable.Over the past two years, Facebook has been experiencing an absolute nightmare that just keeps getting worse. Sudden departures from the cofounders of its three largest acquisitions (WhatsApp, Instagram, and Oculus) hasn’t helped their ongoing PR crisis either. But amid all the chaos, Facebook has successfully positioned Instagram as an innocent bystander time and time again. (In a fantastic 10,000-word Wired story from February 2018, “Instagram” is mentioned only once.) Other than stealing everything from Snapchat and making the app more addictive, Facebook’s key objective has been to leverage Instagram as a symbol of optimism.Naturally, this is not the case. While the narrative of Facebook as the villain of tech has become exhausting at this point, it feels preposterous to call Instagram “a generally positive environment.” The app has been plagued by countless toxic issues over time, including the unintentional promotion of online harassment, child abuse, mental health problems, and illicit drugs.Whether the public accepts it or not, Instagram is just as troubled as its parent company, and the cheerful gradient icon on your home screen is merely a disguise. The once innocent camera app is now trapped deep inside the big blue app — with no chance of escape.In the next three to seven years, I expect most mobile apps to disappear. With them, we’ll witness the loss of billions in venture capital that we’ve poured into the mobile startup sector. It will all be burned to ashes, with nothing left but stray lines of code.The logic came to me six years ago. At the time, I was thinking about investing in a startup that created a mobile app to create apps for users without needing them to code (the concept is similar to website builders like Wix except for a native mobile app). You would simply enter some basic information and the app would generate an app for you on its cloud server. You could then download and install this app on your phone and ask others to do the same by sharing a link or QR code. The idea was to make it easy for individuals and small businesses to create their own personal apps for social or marketing purposes.The vision was that, one day, every legal entity (human beings and companies) would have its own mobile app. These apps would be dotted all over the internet, like physical properties on a map. Unfortunately, it didn’t happen. I doubt it ever will for a few straightforward reasons that are already affecting app usage.If you don’t believe me, count the number of apps you have on your phone. Chances are, if you take away the manufacturer’s pre-installed apps that you can’t delete, you have, at most, 100 apps. Those you use frequently probably number less than 30. Too many apps slow down your phone. They take up memory space, run background processes, and constantly check for push notifications even when not in use.In any case, would you really install a few hundred of your friends’ apps or the apps of all your favorite restaurants, grocers, and laundromats?When smartphones first appeared, major corporations rushed to make apps. Then they realized it was a real headache to maintain them. Every time you update information on your website or promote a product, you have to do the same on your app. And every time a handset manufacturer updates its operating system, you have to debug your app to make sure it keeps working — plus there are the pains of managing bugs on different brands, models, and screen sizes. If you’ve ever been involved in mobile app development, you know what I’m talking about.The truth is, unless you are a major retailer or content publisher that needs to sell or deliver to customers frequently, all you really need is a mobile-friendly website. If information is all people want, they’re going to Google it in a browser.Given the first two points, this third is a logical evolution and is already happening in some parts of the world. It’s what the industry calls “building an ecosystem.” The strategy involves binding users’ daily behaviors and spending into their mobile apps.A good example is how restaurants and cafes are integrating into food delivery apps instead of maintaining their own online order and delivery systems. In turn, these food delivery apps are consolidating with mobile wallet or ride-share apps to provide synergy and convenience to users. Consider Go-Jek, the biggest motorcycle ride-share app in Indonesia. To many people, it’s an all-in-one mobile wallet, ride-hailing, food delivery, and lifestyle services app.Go-Jek took its inspiration from China’s WeChat, the biggest instant messaging app in that country, which has integrated just about every lifestyle service you can think of into under their mobile wallet section. Every serious Chinese business has a WeChat official account, where users can access both static information as well as interactive services and transactions. WeChat has also introduced a “mini-program” section, an API-based ecosystem that basically allows third-party developers to create “child apps” within the main WeChat app so users never have to leave WeChat itself. Third-party developers’ apps connect seamlessly to the payment and social functions of a user’s existing WeChat account.While WeChat approached integration from the beginning as an instant messaging app, other players in China are attempting to compete from other directions — Alipay from its base in e-commerce and Baidu from search engines. The Western world is lagging in this game of becoming a dominant app. It remains to be seen who will become the giant “app of apps” in other countries.Any industry consolidates as it matures. This is especially true in the world of native apps, where economies of scale, large user bases, frequent traffic, and so on are required for monetization. No matter how wonderful a new app idea may be, it costs more and more in advertising and promotion before it reaches critical mass to effectively monetize, much less break even.Apps were called “applications” in the first place because that’s what Apple called locally installed software in their computers to differentiate their system from Windows (which called them programs). Would you install as many different pieces of software on your laptop or PC as you do on your phone?As far as installing anything on a hard drive, think about the trend toward cloud-based services and the software as a service (SaaS) models that are delivered over browsers instead of installing software.Maintaining a mobile app requires time, effort, and money, especially when operating systems like iOS and Android update frequently. Have you noticed that every time you update the software on your phone, something goes wrong in one of your apps? Native apps are no longer as necessary as they once were. Consolidation is coming, and the era of “there’s an app for that” is coming to a close.It’s 2018. We live in the future. We can order a pizza, watch it get made, and watch it get delivered to our house. So why can’t we vote online?Let’s start with some background on what programming languages are, and why we need them. Soon, you’ll see why you should never want to vote online (and why you never want a computer anywhere near you when you’re voting).You probably know computers run on binary, 1s and 0s. And writing in binary is hard—so hard, in fact, that basically nobody wants to do it. Even if you succeed in doing it, what you’re producing is just a bunch of numbers, and it’ll be very hard for anyone—including you in a few weeks, once you forget what you wrote—to figure out what your code actually does.So instead, we computer scientists invented “machine languages.” These are abstractions that change binary code into something that’s at least a little closer to languages humans speak. They’re still basic, but they’re a step in the right direction. Machine languages are based on—and tied to—the hardware of whatever machine they’re designed for. So while you can’t say something easy like “add 10 and 20 together and print that result to the screen,” you can say “place the value 10 in register one, place the value 20 in register two, feed both these registers into adder one, and put the output in register three, and print the contents of register three to the screen.” The machine language is then translated—this is called “compiled”—into the binary 1s and 0s required to actually run on your computer.There are obvious downsides here: You need to be familiar with your computer’s hardware to write in a machine language, and every computer’s architecture is slightly different. Plus, you have to explicitly specify every step of the process. That’s a pain. But the upside is that when you’re looking at a program written in machine language down the road, what’s happening is much clearer—especially compared to looking at an endless stream of 1s and 0s in binary.The next step up is to abstract away the hardware, so you don’t actually need to know the location of things like “adders” and “registers.” If you build a smart enough compiler, you can design machine-independent programming languages, with more abstract instructions that could easily handle things like “add 10 and 20 together, and print that result to the screen.” You’d then rely on the compiler to translate that into machine language and then into binary.While all of these programming languages take different approaches to solving this problem, they share the same goal: to make computer code easier for humans to read, which makes it easier to understand and easier to maintain. Programming languages today make printing the result of 10+20 as simple as writing this:Did you spot the reason you can’t trust any computer?I’ll give you a hint: It’s there in the compiler.No matter what you write, you’re trusting the compiler to accurately turn what you wrote into binary code. If I wanted to mess with your results, all I’d need to do is mess with your compiler.For example, if I changed the “print” command so it always added 1 to the numbers you gave it, your program wouldn’t run properly—even though you programmed it correctly. You’d never find the glitch just by looking at your source code because that’s not where the glitch is. It’s hidden in the compiler.That example is basic and you’d detect it pretty quickly because your program would obviously be broken. But what if I did something more subtle? What if instead of messing with the “print” command, I changed the compiler so that whenever it detected code involving passwords, it made it so the password “ryaniscool” also worked?If I did that, I’d have what’s called a “back door” into every computer program you build with my compiler. In other words, you can lock your front door all you want, but it doesn’t matter because I have a secret door around back nobody knows about. No matter what you write, no matter how secure your password code is, my password of “ryaniscool” is also going to work—and you won’t even know it.Obviously, this is a problem. And you might think, “But compilers are computer programs like any other. I could look at the source code of my compiler to make sure there’s no malicious code there. All I’d need to do is find the part that talks about adding ‘ryaniscool’ as a password, take it out, and I’d be fine. Right?”And you could. Except, as you said, compilers are computer programs like any other. And that means they themselves are compiled.Here’s all I’d need to do to exploit that:As before, I’d write code that adds “ryaniscool” as a valid password to anything it compiles and put this in the compiler. At this point, I’m adding a back door to anything the compiler compiles, but I’ll get caught if anyone looks at the source of my compiler. So I go on to Step 2.I write code for the compiler that detects when it’s compiling itself, and when that happens, it adds in the code for step 1 into the compiler. Now, when I compile the compiler, it makes a new version of itself that will add in compiler instructions for how to insert the “ryaniscool” password whenever the compiler is rebuilt. And to cover my tracks, all I’d need to do is remove the malicious instructions from the compiler source, and I’m done.Whenever the compiler is rebuilt, it’ll build itself such that it’ll contain instructions to add my back door. Whenever that compiler builds something else, it’ll follow those instructions and build my back door right in. And there won’t be a single line of malicious code left in any source code that reveals it.The only way to detect this bug is to go over the binary code yourself—a task that starts out hard and becomes literally impossible as programs become more complex. The complete works of William Shakespeare come in at under 6 megabytes. The Firefox browser alone requires 200 megabytes just to install it, and that’s only one program on your computer. There is not a human alive who has read all 200 megabytes of that code. It’s not even written in a language designed for humans to read.None of this is new. In 1984, Ken Thompson—the man who designed and implemented Unix, the progenitor of the operating systems most computers and phones run on—presented a paper called “Reflections on Trusting Trust” and reached this conclusion:By “totally create yourself,” Ken doesn’t just mean a program that you wrote, but one you wrote the entire stack for: everything down to the compiler. Very few people have the time, skills, and money to build a computer from the ground up, including all the software on it. This would seem to be a bullet in the head for trusting computers with anything.And yet, we trust computers with all sorts of things. So, what gives? Why are we using these nightmare machines?Well, for one thing, computers are really fun and convenient. And they’re practical in a lot of ways. Besides, a compiler hack can be tricky to pull off in practice: You’d need time and motivation to target someone. The truth is, there are many cases where you don’t need absolute trust in your computer: After all, it’s not the end of the world if someone hacks in and sees my pizza being delivered. Nobody cares enough to try to break it.But voting is not one of those cases.Voting is a case where the outcome of a hack can have huge effects. Voting is also relatively easy to target (you know when and where it’s going to happen), and there’s a very strong motivation to alter the outcome. As easily as I could add that “ryaniscool” password, I could change the “add” command so that, when it was tallying votes, it added some extra for the party of my choice.How much should I add? Honestly, at this point, it’s entirely up to me. Hence this conclusion: Online voting will never be safe. Computer voting will never be safe.The only safe-ish way to vote with a computer is one in which a paper ballot is printed in sight of the voter, approved, and then stored in a ballot box. That way, if someone thinks the computer systems were compromised—if there’s any reason at all to suspect someone added the votes improperly—then there’s a paper trail. In other words, the computer adding up the votes is a convenience, nothing more. The real vote, the real power, still lies in the paper ballot.Without that paper trail, you’re left trusting the computer.And nobody should ever trust a computer.I enjoyed the movie Hidden Figures and applauded the effort to shine a light on some of the harsh realities of being black and female in the United States during the 1960s. But none of the discrimination and injustice surprised me. It didn’t even rile me up.That is, until Octavia Spencer’s character couldn’t check out a book from the library.The library! Oh heck naw! Not the library!How could anyone be denied the safe haven that libraries have been for me?I can’t begin to say how many hours I’ve spent in libraries or how important it’s been to me to have unlimited books at my disposal. When I was a teenager, my school librarian, Mrs. Mades, had a huge impact on me. She introduced me to the idea of annotating books and the importance of reading classics in addition to my current favorites.She also introduced me to the idea of becoming a literacy tutor, providing the necessary training and pairing me with a girl who was learning English. I was able to help a fellow student, but I’m positive that she helped me more than I ever helped her.Mrs. Mades instilled in me a love of research, or what I like to refer to as “the hunt.” All the information of the world is out there, and you just have to hunt it down — she taught me that.She helped me recognize that books don’t come with ages slapped on the sides. Just because I was 14 was no reason for me to shy away from intriguing, complicated texts.I’d venture to say that Mrs. Mades—although she never had me in a class, never gave me a grade, and never received the recognition she was due—shaped me just as much as anyone else during my high school experience.I have had a 40-plus-year love affair with libraries and an equally long fangirl crush on librarians. For the whole of my existence, libraries have been places that promoted and facilitated the free acquisition and exchange of knowledge and information. They have been places where everyone could find a spot and where no one was unwelcome.While my rational self understands that even libraries, bastions of goodness that they are, could not and did not escape the racism and prejudice that governed the United States during the Hidden Figures era, my heart broke at the thought that someone would be turned away from a library.That’s not exactly right. My heart broke at the thought that there was a time in our recent history when I would have been turned away from a library.And what would that have done to me?I like to think that I would have persevered and gotten the information I wanted from wherever I could, but I don’t know if that would be true. Would it be more likely that, having been turned away from a library, I never would have developed my love of reading and learning?Who would I be if I had never gone on biweekly library visits with my father as a child?What would I have studied in school if I had never found solace within the stacks of a library?Who would I fangirl crush on if librarians had turned me away instead of embracing me?What would my life be if I hadn’t enjoyed unfettered access to everything libraries have to offer?I shudder to think about it.It makes me wonder about all the people who, while they may not be turned away from libraries due to the color of their skin, do not enjoy everything libraries have to offer. What about kids whose schools don’t have libraries? What about people whose libraries are too far away from home to get there easily? What about libraries that face funding cuts and can’t extend their services to those who need them the most?For far too many people, access to books is still a luxury. And that has got to change.Our health is a combination of genetics and environment. Maybe someone’s genes make them vulnerable to high blood pressure, for example, but by watching what they eat — in effect, controlling their body’s environment — they can keep their numbers within normal levels.Right now, we know a lot about the genetics side of this combination, as an explosion of research has yielded incredible detail about people’s genetic profiles. We also have insight into how our internal bacterial environments — the microbiome — impact our health. But the environmental piece of the puzzle is still fuzzy. We don’t measure all the chemicals we encounter each day, from the microscopic fungi on a walk to the car exhaust on a highway.That is, most people don’t.Michael Snyder, a Stanford biologist and pioneer in genomics, does. For the past several years, Snyder has been wearing a device he invented that measures the environment around him. It’s part of his quest to learn how the environment impacts our health by studying what he calls people’s “exposomes,” or the various air particles, pollutants, viruses, and more that we come into contact with each day.In a recent paper in the journal Cell, Snyder and his colleagues describe what they’ve learned from affixing 15 people with these air-monitoring devices for up to 890 days. Each device is about the size of a big matchbox, and contains filters that trap particulates, chemicals, and microbes from the air around it. Medium talked to Snyder about the study, the exposome, and his own self-monitoring discoveries.Michael Snyder: Yes. The monitoring started when I was doing genome sequencing and other profiles — like gene expression — on myself, 8 years ago. I was using myself as a test subject to get the technology going — I didn’t know I’d be interesting! Then I got diabetes. My genome predicted it, and I got the disease over the course of this profiling. These types of measurements helped me catch the onset of the disease and gave a much more detailed picture of people’s health.With these techniques — like regular testing of blood for changes in gene expression and other readouts — we’re following a group of 109 folks now, many of them for four-and-a-half years or longer. We added wearables about five years ago to continuously monitor physiology, things like heart rate and blood oxygen levels. It helped me figure out when I got Lyme disease, actually. I was with my brother in rural Massachusetts putting up fences, and two weeks later I flew to Norway. When you fly, your blood oxygen levels will drop, but they usually recover after you land. Mine didn’t. And my heart rate was abnormally high. I got a low-grade fever and went to a doctor, who told me I had a bacterial infection. I told him I thought it was Lyme. He recommended penicillin, but I said I think I need doxycycline, which is what you take for Lyme. I measured myself when I got home, and sure enough, I was Lyme positive. It was a perfectly controlled experiment, because I’d given blood before I left and I was negative then.We want to bring big data into health; that’s the motivation. I think the way we do medicine now is very primitive, compared to what it could be. Everybody is focused on disease, but we want to focus on health and transitions to disease. We’ve written algorithms based on the data we’ve collected, and we now think we tell can when you get sick before you realize it, because your heart rate goes up. We’ve shown that on myself and three other people. We’re now trying to set up a 1,000-person study to learn more.That area has been a big hole. We know you’re affected by your genes and your environment, but nobody is capturing the environment individually. Nobody carries around something on their sleeve to monitor their exposure.We took a standard high-end air monitor and re-engineered it. The monitor has a pump that sucks up about one-fifteenth of the air you breathe. We put a submicron filter on the monitor to collect all the particulates in the air. Under that we have a cartridge with a chemical absorbent. We take that filter and elute off the particulates, and sequence, incredibly deeply, the DNA and RNA that’s there. Then we match it up against a custom database with 40,000 species of microorganisms, viruses, plants, and animals. We can see exactly what you’re getting exposed to from the biological side. Then from the chemical absorbent, we elute that off and run it through a mass spectrometer. We see all the chemical structures.The study has just over two years of data on the biologicals; the chemicals we did for only a few months, but nonetheless we learned a ton.The first thing we learned is the exposome is vast. There were more than 2,000 species, from bacteria to my pet guinea pig, registered during my own two years of profiling. Even the guy or gal who wore it for three months for the study was exposed to over 1,000 species. There were close to 3,000 chemical features detected in the whole study.Second is that the exposome is dynamic. It varies a lot. How much of the variation is regional or seasonal? For the part we could figure out, location is the number one factor, especially for the chemicals. The time of year is another important factor. We sampled four people living in the Bay Area — me, and people in Sunnyvale, Redwood City, and San Francisco. We profiled them over the same month, and everybody’s different. The person in San Francisco had sewer sludge bacteria in their samples; there are definitely parts of San Francisco that don’t smell so good. Every time I go to Monterey, I get a fungal exposure. Location really matters.DEET is everywhere, which surprised me; it was in all the samples. There’s a few carcinogens, like the solvent diethylene glycol. A limitation of our study is we don’t know the absolute amounts of exposures; we know relative amounts. That’s something we are working on to pin down. This was really just a survey to see generally what we are exposed to.Right, that was interesting. Pyridine is a nasty chemical. But you can argue this certain ways. If you are very allergic to fungi, which some people are, maybe for them it’s good to have pyridine, although that is a different potentially detrimental exposure.This is not in the paper, but there’s some correlation with health. We’re still trying to sort this all out.Your eosinophils — a type of white blood cell — are actually a measure of allergic response. We can correlate my eosinophils with what exposures are out there. I thought I was probably most allergic to pine, but the correlation was actually better with eucalyptus. One in five Americans has allergies or asthma. It’s useful to know what triggers this.In California, I’m in eucalyptus heaven! I’m not going to cut down a eucalyptus tree, although if a tree ever had to go in my yard that would be the first one to go. Chemical exposures you could try to track and get rid of.We’re going to get these devices on more people — we will try to get inexpensive devices — just to get this out there so lots of people can do this. Ultimately, we have to take samples and analyze them offline. That will be true for a while. But once we figure out what might be most impactful on people’s health, then we’ll try to set up real-time personal monitors for those things.I would argue this is the first map of the human exposome, like the first genome map. We see what’s there, and then we try to understand how it affects your health. As we get more devices out, we will be able to make more associations between allergies and exposures. It would take long-term monitoring to understand the effects of toxins. But I do think we need that data.Do we have to accept the sad premise that people are just too dumb, too uninformed, and too easily fooled to vote intelligently or even rationally? Most of the political class, from both sides of the aisle, seem to think so.Back during George W. Bush’s re-election campaign, I was invited to a fancy lunch with an ancient former secretary of state and some of the associates from his consulting firm. It was at the height of the swift boat “controversy,” when the Democrat candidate John Kerry was being accused of lying about his tour of duty in Vietnam. Some of the veterans who served with him said he wasn’t a hero but a coward. It wasn’t the first dubious, emotionally charged campaign to undermine the integrity of a political candidate, but it was among the first of the internet era, and it spread not just through mainstream media, but virally, and to great effect.The former secretary was apparently interested in what I’d have to say about all this. Or at least one of his people thought it would be worth having a digital type at the table. I had written a rather hopeful book about the way what I called “viral media” would make for a healthier, more honest communications landscape. I tried to argue that the truth would eventually rise to the surface, and that—thanks to the informational bias of the net—voters would come to value facts and policies over rumors and personal attacks. The culture of the net would embrace what I considered to be rational efforts, such as Creative Commons and MoveOn.org over the Tea Party and Fox News.“My friend,” he said, his voice conveying something between pity and condescension, “when will you be ready to accept that the experiment of democracy has been proven a failure?”I was shocked. Stunned into silence. The other people at the table smiled politely but knowingly. I felt like Tom Cruise at the end of Eyes Wide Shut. Were they playing with me or was this their truth?That’s not to say I don’t understand his line of reasoning. Back in the early 1900s, Walter Lippmann, the father of public relations and one of the progressive intellectuals who founded the New Republic magazine, joined Woodrow Wilson’s administration. He was quickly disillusioned by the way Wilson ran for office on a peace platform, then changed his mind and used every underhanded propaganda tool at his disposal to convince the public to support America’s entrance into World War I. Is this any way to govern a democratic people? Tell them what to believe? He sought to figure out some compromise that could uphold his progressive values while acknowledging the need to steer the popular sentiment of the crowd.Lippmann wrote a book, Public Opinion, in which he reluctantly concluded that the masses (that’s all of us) were indeed incapable of understanding what was going in the world, much less making intelligent decisions on our own behalf. We were just responding to the “pictures in our heads,” which could be coming from anywhere: movies, religion, fantasies, or even propaganda. We, the people, can’t be truly entrusted with evaluating or actually deciding anything consequential. Rather, he argued, the government should set up a council of experts who make scientifically informed decisions about everything. Then, the powers that be should hire public relations specialists to manufacture consent for these policies. It’s not about finding out how we feel, but getting us to feel the way that serves our best interests—as determined by our benevolent leaders.This may sound well-meaning compared with fascism, but it’s essentially democracy in reverse. And it has informed political campaigning ever since. From Lippmann’s protege, legendary spin doctor Ed Bernays, right through to modern political tricksters like Roger Stone, the object of the game has become to put pictures in people’s heads—true or false—that get them to vote in particular ways. As Bernays put it in the opening of his book Propaganda, “We are governed, our minds are molded, our tastes formed, our ideas suggested, largely by men we have never heard of. This is a logical result of the way in which our democratic society is organized.”Maybe the elder statesman had been correct in his assessment of our citizens’ incapacity to serve as the informed electorate in a functioning democracy. Even back in 2004, Fox News and Rush Limbaugh had proven themselves quite effective at winning adherents through emotionally charged hot-button appeals. We were on the brink of the second term of a president whose economic and geopolitical record was calamitous, but whose propagandists were winning. If the only thing differentiating candidates is the willingness of their PR people to manipulate by any means necessary, then democracy really has failed. Rather than competing to persuade the electorate, politicians have applied their efforts—and money—toward manipulating them instead.I’ve thought about this problem often, but the Obama wins of 2008 and 2012 seemed to demonstrate that perhaps the opposite was true, heralding an age when people would actually respond favorably to a cool clinician making appeals to rationality.Or was that just another example of good storytelling? As rational as his approach may have been, Obama’s appeal was largely emotional. If Democrats had been true wonks, they would have likely supported Hillary over a young man with no international experience. In that sense, eight years of Obama may not disprove the former secretary’s contention so much as validate it.Now, perhaps more than ever, political appeals are characterized less by the facts voters need than by the nostalgia, attacks, and melodrama to which they instinctually respond. And the pollsters and policy pushers don’t give this manipulation a second thought. To them, democracy is less about persuading members of an informed electorate to support one’s policies than the right to do whatever is necessary to make the electorate vote the way you want them to. They’re just the masses—a means to an end.In 2006, I met up with Republican strategist Frank Luntz, and I took the opportunity to confront him about some of the tactics he had been using to manipulate people’s opinions on major issues. He’s the guy who sold Republican policies to the public by changing “drilling for oil” to “energy exploration” and “estate tax” to “death tax.” He advised Israel to refer to Palestinians only as Arabs, the border wall as a fence, and occupied territory as disputed territory. In an interview on NPR’s Fresh Air, Luntz used the term “Orwellian” positively and without irony, to mean “the skillful application of emotional language.” He told me he understood that John Kerry wasn’t really a traitor to the United States, but that the swift boat campaign positioned him that way quite effectively for millions of Americans—and cost him the election. When I asked Luntz if it was really ethical to frame one’s political policies and enemies so emotionally and even inaccurately, he replied, “Do you want to win?”And for all the talk of going high when they go low, Democrats—at least establishment Democrats—operate from the same set of beliefs, even if they do it a lot less blatantly. Unlike the Right, the Left hasn’t been actively stoking violent, racist hatred. But their operatives, particularly in the wake of the bruising they took from Trump in the last election, seem much less interested in describing the logic of their own policies than in frightening people about those of their opponents.In the final months of Trump’s campaign, I offered to conduct a “memetic analysis” of Hillary Clinton for party leaders. Trump was wiping the floor with all his adversaries by stressing or inventing negatives. This was Frank Luntz on steroids. Instead of “climate change,” though, it was “crooked Hillary.” Instead of Luntz’s “Contract with America,” it was “lock her up.”I got it into my head that I could help. I understand these tactics, but I believe they can be countered with facts and rational appeals. After doing a memetic analysis of the landscape and coming up with a few insights I deemed valuable, I approached my contacts at the Democratic National Committee as well as some of its policy tributaries. No, I wasn’t asking for money, but I felt I could show them how to position their candidates and policies in ways that resonated better with people’s concerns, neutralized some of the attacks on them, or even helped strengthen cultural immunity to these viral assaults. If only I could get to Neera Tanden at the Center for American Progress. Or John Podesta, Clinton’s campaign manager, whom I once interviewed for a documentary…. Nobody was interested. I’m sure they assumed Hillary would win anyway. I ended up sharing my findings with my friends and grad students instead and braced for the worst.Within hours of Trump’s election, every progressive in New York was holding emergency meetings with Democratic operatives and planning how to fight back or at least win the next time out. Suddenly, it seemed like everybody was ready to speak with me.I don’t know how many of these impromptu sessions I attended. I ended up in apartments, churches, and conference rooms with everyone from the editors of Adbusters magazine to New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. I finally met Tanden, the president of the Center for American Progress—probably the most Clintonian of the political advocacy groups. Now she seemed interested in what I had to say.I explained my research methodology. I analyze the memes around particular issues in order to figure out the real obstacles people have in accepting certain people or policies. It’s not about words so much as ideas. Many people associate energy conservation, mutual aid, or the social safety net with weakness. And the combustion engine with masculine power. But why? And how can one begin to reframe those ideas in more successful ways?In the wake of Trump’s empty but effective verbal assaults and nationalist rhetoric, I thought the Democrats could counter by implementing or even just fostering real-world solutions. I suggested that the best option would be to promote various forms of mutual aid and local resilience, retrieving some long lost democratic approaches to problems. Let people—both red and blue—benefit from enacting simple, commons-based strategies, such as local currencies, “favor banks,” civic engagement, after-school programs, and food pantries, and they will come to value the progressive agenda through direct experience.This wasn’t what Tanden had in mind. She wanted to know which aspects of Trump were most susceptible to attack. “Can’t you do a memetic analysis of Trump?” she asked. The object of the game, as she saw it, was not to bolster the Democratic argument, educate the public about policies that would improve their lives, or even foster the creation of bottom-up efforts to enact positive social change. No, it was to “drive up Trump’s negatives.”There certainly was a political logic to this. Midterms may have been two years away at the time, but primary season was just around the corner, and even impeachment was still a possibility if the country turned on Trump. She likely believed that if I could identify Trump’s biggest vulnerabilities—particularly with swing voters who had gone for Obama in the last election—she and her team could then go on CNN and MSNBC and highlight them. Besides, as long as those networks are covering everything Trumps does, negatives become the only viable fodder for discussion and critique. If you have no airtime to make your own policies and politicians look good, then at least make Trump—and everyone associated with him—look bad.Believing that any effort spent appealing to the intellect of the informed citizen is at best a waste of time and money, many Democratic operatives resigned themselves to competing in Lipmann’s propaganda war over the pictures in people’s heads.Having seen how successful the Trumpian strategy had been, they gave up even the appearance of trying to persuade voters—gave up on democracy itself—and doubled down on emotional manipulation.This has been the de facto strategy of establishment Democrats right up through this midterm election. And if the “blue wave” fails to materialize, it will be because of this strategic failure.Call me naive, but I believe Americans do care about how their votes will impact the real world in real ways. I believe our higher faculties can still inform our choices. Emphasizing negatives, triggering crowd panic, playing to outrage, and going low is a wholesale abandonment of democratic values.And it’s not even working. Each shrill reaction on the OpEd page or cable TV to one of Trump’s misdeeds further entrenches him and his supporters in their positions.Moreover, emphasizing Trump’s negatives further positions him as the protagonist of our national story. He may not be a good president or nice person. He may even be a would-be tyrant with a personality disorder. But he is also a man under constant attack. Eventually, no matter how dastardly a character—Frank Underwood, Dr. Smith, Gru, Richard III, Regina George—the audience can’t help but empathize with their plight when they are on the defensive. Like him or not, everyone can recognize the humanity in Trump’s wriggling, excuse-making, lying, and tantrum-throwing. He is the only human character on the screen, and as a reality TV star, he knows well that audiences will identify with him, even involuntarily. As we have witnessed this week, this sense of identification can yield dangerous consequences.Here’s a radical idea: What if Democrats acted, instead, as if they actually believed in democracy: the ability of American citizens to understand issues and make choices informed by logic? What if they stated what they believe in, policy-wise—made their case—and counted on the process to work. Yes, a lot is at stake. And many Democrats believe that if they don’t win at least one chamber of Congress in this election, the electoral process will be rigged forever toward the current majority party.But real democracy demands an informed electorate. The Democrats will always lose in an unprincipled brawl because the Democrats must always at least pay lip service to democratic principles. The Right can argue that unbridled, no-holds-barred competition is the basis of their economic and geopolitical philosophy. Democrats don’t have this option. Besides, if Democrats undermine the fundamental premise of democracy in order to win an election, then what’s left?If I could go back to that swanky restaurant and answer the former secretary of state, I’d say, “No, I’m not ready to accept that the experiment of democracy has proven a failure. Not yet.”This midterm election, we still have a chance to remember what it is we’re doing this for. What this is really about. Our role in this process and whether we are up for the challenge.Are we even willing to show up at the polls, much less understand the issues we are voting on?Our politicians and their propagandists on both sides have lost faith in our ability to vote purposefully. They believe that the democratic experiment has failed. They are wrong. But the only way we can effectively defend ourselves against the folks on both sides who would underestimate our intelligence, our competence, and our collective will is to vote.Back in 1896, a journal article titled “The Plague of City Noises” set off the 19th century’s version of a Twitter meltdown. The article highlighted “the injurious and exhausting effects of city noises on the auditory apparatus, and on the whole nervous system,” and generated “hundreds” of editorial comments and “scores” of private letters across the United States and Europe.“Almost without exception… the medical press agreed with the contention that the noises of our modern cities are not only a source of great discomfort, but are largely life-shortening and health-wrecking in their effects,” the author of an article on the phenomenon wrote the following year.Fast-forward to 2011, and a report from the World Health Organization (WHO) came to similar conclusions. The authors concluded that in western Europe alone, roughly 1 million healthy life years are lost each year as a result of traffic-related noise. Noise is inherently arousing, and the long-term effects of “chronic noise stress” on the human hormone and nervous systems are a growing concern, the report states.Just as the human digestive system can be overwhelmed by the sugar and calories packed into contemporary diets, noise pollution experts say the human brain and nervous system can be overwhelmed by the amount of ambient noise packed into contemporary life.“The auditory system is continuously analyzing acoustic information, including unwanted and disturbing sound, which is filtered and interpreted by different brain structures,” says Wolfgang Babisch, a former research scientist with Germany’s Federal Environment Agency who has studied the effects of noise on human health and authored a chapter of the WHO report.Our brain’s always-on auditory system was designed to operate in natural environments — not in cacophonous cities and suburbs. There’s increasing evidence that ambient-noise exposure can contribute to metabolic disorders ike Type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, and stroke, Babisch says. There’s also evidence linking noise-related annoyance to poorer mental health.How can noise do damage? Loud or unpredictable sounds can activate the body’s sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and trigger an increase in stress-related hormones like epinephrine and cortisol, Babisch says. Over time, this SNS activation and its accompanying stress-hormone spikes can lead to increases in blood sugar, blood pressure, and blood viscosity, which in turn can contribute to health problems.A study published this year by Thomas Münzel, a professor of medicine at the University Medical Center of Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz in Germany, found that exposure to loud environmental noise can also increase a person’s risk for irregular heartbeat. In another 2018 report, Münzel detailed the ties between loud noise and heart failure, heart attack, and stroke — as well as noise’s negative impact on a person’s sleep and cognitive performance. He says anything as loud as about 70 decibels — roughly the noise generated by a passing car — could be considered “unhealthy noise,” because it can disturb sleep, and poor sleep is a risk factor for health issues ranging from heart disease to obesity to diabetes.“You can close your eyes, but you cannot close your ears,” Münzel says. During sleep, sudden or loud noises can lead to significant increases in a person’s blood pressure, even if that person doesn’t wake up, he says.The effect different noises have on your health depends in large part on context and your sensitivity to the sound. “People can acclimate to noise,” Babisch says. A longtime city dweller may not notice, or mind, the ambient clatter outside her urban office window, while these same sounds may rile a person accustomed to quieter, rural environments.But regardless of its decibel level, any noise that disrupts your concentration or annoys you — whether it’s your co-worker’s laugh, a neighbor’s barking dog, or your kids’ shouting — is enough to activate your nervous system and contribute to negative effects, including raising your risk for mental illness. “The higher the degree of annoyance, the higher the likelihood of depression and anxiety disorders,” Münzel adds. Along with disrupting sleep, annoying noises promote stress, which can contribute to these conditions, his research suggests.Even music can be arousing and stress-inducing, says Joanne Loewy, an assistant professor and director of the Louis Armstrong Center for Music and Medicine at Mount Sinai Beth Israel. Up-tempo music with a lot of notes can accelerate a listener’s heart rate and breathing. While this can be helpful during exercise or those times when you want to pump yourself up, it’s not so great when you’re driving in heavy traffic or trying to unwind, she says.Masking or blocking out loud or annoying sounds whenever possible can help combat all of their negative health effects. Depending on the situation, earplugs or noise-canceling headphones can help with this, Babisch says. So can soft music, fans, or white-noise machines — all of which can cover up distracting noises. There’s also evidence that listening to natural ambient sounds — rain, the rustling of leaves, the tumble of ocean waves — can help calm your nervous system and combat stress.Total silence, on the other hand, should not be your goal. Just as the human brain and auditory system weren’t designed to live in noisy environments, they also don’t seem to respond well to an absence of sound. “Complete silence can also cause stress,” Münzel says.The bottom line is that life has gotten loud. It may be time to turn down the volume.Martin Rees is the 15th Astronomer Royal, an actual senior post in the Royal Households of the United Kingdom. That means, as he writes half-seriously in his new book, On the Future: Prospects for Humanity, if the Queen of England wanted her horoscope done, “I’m the one she’d ask.” Rees isn’t actually an astrologer — he’s a cosmologist and astrophysicist, one who in a long and distinguished scientific career has made breakthroughs on black holes and the tantalizing possibility of the multiverse, while finding time to serve as president of the Royal Society and as master of Trinity College at Cambridge University, where he still works today at the age of 76.But though Rees can’t read your future in the stars, he is in the business of prediction. In his 2003 book, Our Final Century: Will the Human Race Survive the Twenty-First Century?, Rees raised the alarm over the dangers that emerging technologies like genetic engineering and artificial engineering could pose to the future of the human race. (The book was published in the United States with the title Our Final Hour, because, Rees joked in a TED Talk, “Americans like instant gratification.”) The book was one of the first explorations of what are now called existential risks — threats, especially technological ones, that could plausibly lead to humankind’s extinction. Rees argued that we are living through a critical moment in the history of our species, and that we will either find a way to responsibly harness these technologies or be destroyed by them.In On the Future, Rees casts a wider eye over humankind, which he sees threatened by powerful new technologies like gene editing and the accumulating pressures of growth and climate change. In a Skype conversation from his home in Cambridge, England, Rees discussed the limits of science, his political pessimism, and why humans of the future could be very different from you or me.This interview has been lightly edited and condensed for clarity.Martin Rees: I don’t think it’s changed, really. I describe myself as a technological optimist but a political pessimist. We have the technology to provide a good life for 9 billion people in the world by the middle of the century, but we’ll have a bumpy ride because of political constraints. That’s still my view.The concerns I raise in my new book are of two kinds. One focuses on the pressures we’re putting collectively on the biosphere, because there are more of us, all demanding more energy and resources, which leads to climate change, loss of biodiversity, and so forth. That’s one class.But the other concern focuses on new technologies, like in bio, cyber, and A.I., which are, of course, very powerful. They’ve developed hugely over the last 15 years. And they lead to a new issue of concern that just a few people or even an individual can, by error or by design, cause a catastrophe that cascades very widely, even globally. This is something which is very new. And this is a big challenge, because it adds to the tension between privacy, security, and liberty, if you want to minimize that risk. I like to say the global village will have its village idiots, and they will have a global range. So that’s a new concern I have.I don’t think so. My main theme is that if we think in the cosmic perspective—and I’m an astronomer by profession—we know that the Earth has existed for 45 million centuries. And this one species, the human species, can determine the future of the planet. Of course, there are doomsday scenarios where we leave a denuded planet and have mass extinctions, and there are bright scenarios where we survive on this planet and perhaps spread beyond it. We can initiate a transition from humans to some post-human species, augmented genetically or augmented by cyborg techniques.Well, I think no one could look at the global situation now without being a political pessimist. But the way I see it is if we look back at the Middle Ages—say, 500 years ago—things in Europe were far, far worse than they are now. We can’t deny there has been a huge amount of technical development, without which we would not be able to have a world of 7 billion people where we avoid mass starvation. Five hundred years ago, things were miserable, but there wasn’t much that could be done about it.On the other hand, the gap today between the way things are and the way they could be is wider. Most of us are doing fine, but we also know that the richest 1,000 people in the world could make a big difference to the lives of the bottom 1 billion in the world. The fact that they’re not doing that is, of course, an ethical indictment of this present situation. That’s why I question the idea of real ethical progress over that time.I think the latter is the only one with any chance of success, because it’s a very hard sell, politically, to persuade people to make sacrifices now, say, to take on a high carbon tax, when the benefits mainly accrue several decades in the future and mainly to other parts of the world. Politicians focus on the local and the short term, and it’s very hard to get them to adopt long-term issues.On the other hand, I think we could do far more to accelerate research and development into all kinds of clean energy, smart continent-wide grids, and energy storage. And this is a win-win situation — a win for the high-tech nations which develop it, and more importantly, a win for countries like India that now get energy from smoky stoves burning wood and dung. They need to have a grid. They need more power. What they’re tempted to do is to adopt the cheapest energy, which is coal-fired power stations. But we want to accelerate R&D so that gradually the costs come down and they can afford to leapfrog directly to clean energy.There are certainly often questions which aren’t really tractable. To give one example from my own area of interest, there’s the origin of life. We know about evolution, but the actual origin of life, the transition from chemistry to the first metabolizing reproducing system that we call life, that’s something which everyone has known for at least 50 years is a crucial problem, but no one has really known how to tackle it.I think your question has another aspect — are there some parts of science which we’ll never be able to tackle because our brains aren’t up to it? I think we need to be open-minded about that, too. There’s no particular reason to think that our brains, which haven’t changed much since our ancestors roamed the African savanna, can cope with understanding all of physical reality. It’s surprising enough that we can cope with the counterintuitive world of the quantum and of the cosmos, away from everyday scales and everyday physics.But there may be some things that we’ll never be able to understand. Computers might help us, but we’ll never have full insight into some sciences, I suspect. This could be true of some fundamental physics like string theory, which may be correct but too difficult for us to actually test and verify. And it may also be true of trying to fully understand our own brains.If you think of the immediate situation, cyber threats are very concerning. We know they’re happening already. We know that there’s an arms race between those who are trying to carry out cyberattacks and those who are trying to protect against them. We know from the U.S. Department of Defense that a single person could carry out a cyberattack, for example, on the electrical grid that is so severe as to demand a nuclear response. They actually used those words. So cyberthreats are very, very serious.In the short term, I also worry about bio threats, by error or by terror. It’s possible for a few people to create some sort of a dangerous pathogen that could be released by error or by design. There have been attempts to get possible regulations. That’s very good and very important, but sometimes I worry that those regulations can’t now be enforced because these technologies have been pursued globally with strong commercial pressures. And I worry that enforcing them globally is as hopeless as enforcing drug laws globally or tax laws globally. We’ve had precious little success in either of those. I worry that anything that can be done will be done somewhere by someone.As regards A.I. and the machines taking over, of course some people worry about that. But I think that is a longer-term concern, and I think it may be misleading. People assume that machines will be aggressive and expansionist like we are. We have evolved via natural selection, by a process which has favored intelligence but also favored aggression. But if Darwin and biological evolution is replaced by technological evolution, there’s no particular reason why it should be strictly analogous to the harsh survival of the fittest. I don’t see why we would assume that these machines will be aggressive rather than contemplative.There are those who think that for a long time we need to worry far more about human stupidity than artificial intelligence and that it’s premature to have these discussions now. You have to bear in mind that although it’s hugely impressive what A.I. has done in special areas like playing games, robots are still rather primitive compared to humans when it comes to interacting with the external world.But the order in which things happen with A.I. will make a big difference. For instance, you can develop an A.I. which is very powerful, and it can be hugely helpful, not only in controlling complex networks of traffic flow, electricity grids, and things like that, but also perhaps in helping us address some of these other threats we’ve discussed. So we want to develop the right kind of A.I. very quickly to help us.On the other hand, we want to ensure that we don’t accidentally develop A.I. which could go rogue and interact via the internet of things with the external world.I think they have been useful. A huge amount of effort goes into reducing more conventional risks, things like low radiation doses, aircraft accidents, and so forth. In comparison with those kinds of risks, these new ultrahigh-consequence but low-probability threats are very under-discussed. Even with these institutes, worldwide there are probably only about 100 or so people who would claim that their prime interest is in addressing existential threats.Given how huge the stakes are, if these people can reduce the probability of an existential catastrophe by just one part in 10,000, they’ve more than earned their keep. I think that there should be rather more people addressing these long-term threats.I’m worried, because I think we can’t predict. We have a bumpy ride ahead of us, because things will go wrong. There are going to be major political errors. But I would hope that in the long run, we will survive.I have some slight heretical views about manned space flight. I think because robots are getting better, the practical case to send people into space is getting weaker all the time. If I was an American, I wouldn’t support the manned part of NASA’s program at all. I’d support the unmanned part, but the manned part I would leave to Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos.They can take higher risks than NASA could impose on civilian astronauts. They can fly the kind of adventures with astronauts who are prepared to take a 10 or 20 percent risk of not coming back. I think that’s what will happen, and I think we should cheer them on. Through their efforts, there will be some people who, by the end of the century, will be living on Mars. But I don’t think it will be mass emigration. It’s a dangerous delusion to believe we can solve the problems of Earth by going to Mars.Dealing with climate change is a doodle compared to terraforming Mars. Those who go will have every incentive to adapt themselves to a hostile environment using genetic modification and cyborg techniques which may be highly regulated here on Earth.It could be that, within a few hundred years, they will have evolved into a new species, perhaps one that is electronic and near immortal. Post-human evolution may be spearheaded by the few thrill-seeking pioneers who go to Mars. They can then go off into the blue yonder and pervade interstellar space.Robert Bowers, the alleged Pittsburgh synagogue killer, had an online life like many thousands of anti-Semitic Americans. Among his…Last year, in late-July, Sasha Reid went to her desk in her apartment just outside Toronto. Her cat, Giz, hopped onto her lap. It was late, and the sun had already gone down. She booted up her champagne-colored MacBook Air and began searching through recent police reports from Canada, looking for people who had been reported missing for more than 72 hours, which is when most law enforcement agencies open cases.Reid, a 30-year-old criminologist and developmental psychologist who’s finishing her PhD at the University of Toronto, has been collecting information on missing persons for more than two years. She’s amassed an in-depth database of thousands of them — drawing from official Search and Rescue (SAR) reports, the Native Women’s Association of Canada (NWAC) database, collecting tips from crime-beat journalists as well as from friends and family of those missing — in order to obtain the age, ethnicity, demographic, and geographical information of victims. For some of this data collection, she’s delegated research responsibilities to 13 volunteer undergraduates at the University of Toronto. Often, she cross-references this database with another database that she’s been working on for closer to four years — her “serial killer” database — which includes up to 600 variables on the behavioral and psychological development of every known serial killer since the fifteenth century, making it the most complete database on the developmental traits of serial killers in existence.That night in July, while updating her missing persons database, Reid came across a curious pattern. Looking at Ontario police records, she found and entered data on Skandaraj “Skanda” Navaratnam, a thin 40-year-old refugee from Sri Lanka with black hair and sunken brown eyes, who had disappeared in September 2010, and had been last seen leaving a nightclub in Toronto’s gay district. Later in the evening, Reid found and logged Majeed “Hamid” Kayhan, a 58-year-old man who’d come to Toronto from Afghanistan and had also disappeared years earlier, in October 2012, also in Toronto’s gay district. When, later in the evening, she came across Abdulbasir Faizi, a 42-year-old, also from Afghanistan, who had disappeared in December 2010 in Toronto, Reid became particularly suspicious. All were middle-aged men, probably gay, and from a similar geographic area with a similar physical appearance — all had either beards or goatees and brown or black hair. And yet, while they’d been missing for between five and seven years, the police neither had much information on them nor had they linked them together.“After I saw three — three was enough for me,” Reid recalls. Immediately, she suspected a serial killer. “Having spent years just looking at patterns and studying serial killers, obviously, you come to realize that with clusters like this, more often than not, it’s something worth looking into.” She began a search through her serial killer database. “Okay, who’s targeting gay men?” she remembers asking herself. “There aren’t a whole lot.” More than just finding out who was targeting gay men though, she wanted to know who was targeting marginalized communities.It was now pitch black outside, but Reid continued to work. While most of the current literature in the specialist criminology niche of serial killers is focused on identifying a serial killer’s static traits, like ethnicity or IQ, or biomarkers, like physical illnesses or disorders, Reid is primarily interested in behavioral and psychological development: Who suffered a childhood trauma, a divorce, or abuse? Who acted out violently? With sexual deviance? To what end? Whose childhood bedroom had lead paint on the walls? Who had a brain injury? What kind? Asthma? Did it make it harder for them to play sports and therefore to make friends? How did they treat the family cat?Tracking their development, Reid says, is an essential tool for identifying serial killers. Future serial killers, she claims, tend to already be having intensely violent and sexual thoughts by the age of eight. By the age of twelve, they’re often a legitimate risk to themselves and to others. People, of course, change, and paths can shift. “Human development doesn’t just go along this one line,” she says. “Every single millimeter there’s a different route to go down.”In the case of the missing men in Toronto, Reid realized that their similarities in circumstance of disappearance, in sexual orientation, in ethnicity, and physical appearance, pointed toward a serial killer who had a specific psychological animus.She looked through her serial killer database, positing that the killer would probably be male (about 85 percent of apprehended serial killers are), but she also figured that he would be involved in the gay community (although perhaps not openly gay) given that the victims were gay. She assumed he would probably live in Toronto and would be familiar with the city’s Gay Village, as that’s where the disappearances occurred. She supposed he would have a blue-collar job, likely one with the tools and likely one that provided him access to the skill sets needed for effectively dismembering and a place to hide bodies. And, crucially, she believed the killer would have the developmental profile of someone who would feel compelled to kill middle-aged gay men of color.Never before had she called the police based on a finding in her databases. But this was different.“At that point,” she says. “I called the police.”Sasha Marie Reid was born in Dryden, Ontario, a quiet, hockey-loving town of fewer than 6,000 people. Although she is the eldest of four siblings, Reid grew up rather isolated. Mostly, she spent her time alone, outside, exploring the expansive forest behind her family’s house. Pitch-black evenings, no streetlights, the sky covered in a sheet of stars — her countryside home felt removed from civilization. It was like a fable, she said. Even today, she misses her home, thinking of it as one of the few safe spaces she’s ever known. “The only reason I even decided to get a job was so I could, one day, try to buy my home back,” she said. Later, she wrote, it is “as if owning my home again will allow me to understand and correct the traumas of the past.”In grade school, Reid became close with her neighbor, Chris. Chris’ mother, Teri-Lynn, was a witch and a practicing Wiccan, and she encouraged them in their burgeoning interest in monsters and the dark. Together, they played in the forest, watched classic horror films, wrote horror movie scripts, and talked about witches and witchcraft. Reid’s mother, a devout Christian, did not approve. When Reid was nine, Reid’s parents divorced. It was particularly traumatic for Reid. They both married other people, both of whom Reid deeply disliked. “I couldn’t stand either one of them,” she says. She felt rejected, powerless, and thrown out of her own family.She and Chris drifted apart, and she began spending time with a group of middle school and high school students who she says were associated with small-time gangs and in and out of trouble. She characterizes them as mostly low-level criminals, but there were also, she says, some who would later go on to be convicted of serious offenses. Even though she knew they were a negative influence, she stayed with this friend group for the same reason she had been initially drawn to them: she understood them, and, she figured, they understood her. “The people I was hanging out with were people who were equally weird and equally hurt,” she said. “So they knew and there was a sense of comfort being able to be in a friend group that wouldn’t deny my pain, that wouldn’t deny the reality of that trauma and that suffering and that knew what it was like to not have any firm footing at all.”Reid became interested in psychology. She began studying on her own, at Dryden’s town library. One text that would become foundational for her was Robert Hare’s Without Conscience: The Disturbing World of the Psychopaths Among Us, which she first read before high school. In it, Hare, a Canadian criminal psychologist, asks whether psychopaths are immoral, or, as he eventually concludes, whether they do not have a sense of morality at all. This means their often violent actions must be understood as neither good nor bad but simply actions that have arisen from their upbringing and environment. Christian Perring, now a psychology professor at Dowling College, who reviewed the book for Metapsychology, an online reviews journal, wrote that the book was far too sensationalized, likening it to an “episode of America’s Most Wanted.” But for a young girl struggling with a sense of powerlessness and confusion, the book was revelatory.“For the very first time in my life, I moved away from this idea of monsters as imaginary to being able to understand that monsters are real,” she says. “Monsters are people. There are people who are monsters. That was an extraordinary thing to me.”When Reid turned 18, she left Dryden to study psychology and mental health at the University of Toronto in Scarborough. Thereafter, she completed two master’s degrees: one in criminology and sociological studies and the other in applied psychology and human development at the University of Toronto’s main campus in the Ontario capital. She worked for a summer at a maximum-security prison in a remote part of southern Ontario as a psychologist, conducting cognitive-behavioral therapy with inmates. She spent a spring in Nottingham, England, where she worked with Georgina Cosma — an associate professor at Nottingham Trent University who’s an expert in machine learning — on potential artificial intelligence applications to her database. She started her serial killer database around then, too, and about a year later, she began her missing persons database. This year, at 30, she is teaching courses at the nexus of law, society, and psychology at the University of Calgary, as she nears the completion of her PhD.From the outside, it would seem like the details of Reid’s early life gave her an uncannily intuitive understanding of the makeup of serial killers: a fractured family, a deviant friend group, a rural and working-class upbringing, a sense of isolation and abandonment. When I asked her about it, she initially dismissed any parallels between her upbringing and that of many serial killers. But, later, she conceded that even if her childhood and their typical childhoods aren’t exactly the same, she nonetheless empathizes with them; or, at least, she sees beyond the desire to simply call them evil and strip serial killers of their humanity.“I understand what it is to be afraid to go home,” she says. “I understand what it is to feel that no one loves you, and that there is no love in your world. I get what that means, and I guess that’s the one thing that kind of helps me. Because when I’m studying serial killers, when I hear people talking about them… I think that people really forget the role that trauma plays in long-term life outcomes. It’s not this abuse excuse. It’s not that you’re abused once and life just unravels, but it’s this complex accumulation.”Ever since Ted Bundy was first arrested in 1975, computers have been central to serial killer investigations. In Bundy’s case, a computer-based cross-referencing of lists, including ones that aggregated the high school classmates of one of his victims (Lynda Healy), owners of Volkswagens, and people known to live in the areas near his killings, led to his arrest.But even as computer technology has significantly progressed in subsequent years, the way law enforcement tries to catch serial killers has not kept pace. In 1983, the FBI launched the Violent Criminal Apprehension Program, known as ViCAP, but with over 189 questions that investigators had to answer and input into the program (later trimmed to 95), it never became as widely used as intended.Other technologies and algorithms have followed. In 1991, Kim Rossmo, a Vancouver policeman who became a professor of criminal justice at Texas State University, invented an algorithm to help predict where a serial killer might live based on where victims are found when compared to where suspects live; in 1992, Michael Aamodt, a professor of psychology at Radford University in Virginia, created the Radford Serial Killer Database, which provided demographic information on over 4,500 serial killers; and in 2015, Thomas Hargrove, a news-service journalist-turned-sleuth, created a nonprofit called the Murder Accountability Project, or MAP, which used an algorithm that accounted for the style, place, and time of killings as well as basic demographic information about the victims in order to narrow in on potential serial killers.Yet, while all of these worked to provide more information to investigators and, in certain cases, to help narrow down a list of suspects, none of them could deal explicitly with the killers’ specific psychoses — how they thought, how they had developed, or, crucially, when they might next strike. To be able to understand the background of a serial killer is to begin to understand who he might have already killed and who he may soon kill.“What drives the series of killings can only be truly understood in the context of the serial murderer’s experience of his life,” Candice A. Skrapec, a psychologist and criminologist at California State University, Fresno, wrote in a 2001 paper in Homicide Studies. “What has largely been neglected by researchers is the first-person, lived-meaning of killing a number of people over time.”When it comes to serial killers — as with any homicide — the Holy Grail for law enforcement has always been to stop them before they strike. Reid believes it’s possible; however, she worries about an eventual Minority Report-style of policing that could spring from her algorithms. To start, though, she wants to stop active serial killers before they strike again, finding patterns in their first two or three kills that can lead to their apprehension.“A lot of people, they look at things like very static traits, like, ‘Are they psychopaths, yes or no? Narcissist, yes or no?’” Reid says, pointing to a series of black-and-white photographs of serial killers that she has printed out and hung on her office wall at the University of Calgary, where she is currently an instructor. “They look at whether or not they were abused. Okay, that’s great. But in having a developmental-psych background, I understand it’s not enough just to know that a person was abused. At what time were they abused? How often were they abused? Who abused them? What type of abuse was it? Was it Mom? Was it Dad? There’s a trillion questions that come out of one factor. That’s why my database is so expansive. It’s because I’m asking those minute, little details. It’s not enough to know that a person was abused. You’ve got to know the how, the why — everything.”With data on over 4,500 serial killers — and entirely complete data on 75 of them — Reid’s serial killer database currently includes nearly 600 variables for every killer, which covers almost every imaginable developmental trait or outlook the killers had. She tracks their development from even before birth with questions like: Was there prenatal exposure to drugs? To chemicals? Did Mom smoke? Was she particularly stressed? Then, there are questions of the birth itself: Was there a medical complication at birth? Any brain abnormalities? Then questions of childhood: Any head injuries? If so, at what age? Any physical deformities?Many of these traits may seem to be related to physicality, but Reid is interested in their developmental implications. She points to the serial killer Gary Ridgway’s profile on her Excel sheet database that she’s now pulled up on her MacBook Air in her office. “Look,” she says, excitedly. “Low IQ. So that’s definitely a risk factor, but not for why a lot of people think. It’s a risk factor for making friends. Kids with lower IQs tend to have fewer friends because they don’t really know how to socially engage.” She goes quiet. “Sometimes they’re shunned, which is really sad.”There are then questions of family: Were there parents separated? Divorced? If so, when? Did Dad have a stable job? Was he a criminal? What about Mom? Was she a housewife? Were they ever abandoned for a significant duration? What were the circumstances? Did they witness spousal abuse? Mom against Dad? Dad against Mom? Both? Then, there are questions of power: Did they ever apply to become a police officer? Were they successful? Any sexual fantasies?“Look!” Reid says again, pointing to this data point, toggling between her online codebook and the Excel sheet. “Did the serial killer have sexual fantasies in his youth, yes or no? Look, look. That one started at six. Isn’t that incredible?” She reads down the line of data she and her undergraduate volunteers gathered from police reports, biographies, and archival research. “Age five, four, five, six, 11.”Were they bullied? Did they bully others? Were they lonely? “Look at this, too,” she says. “Look at all these ones. Were they a loner? Poor things. They were.” She moves her finger across the screen. “Did they get along with their fellow students? Yes, no? Close peer group? One close friend? They might’ve been a loner, but if they had that one person, that usually helped a lot.”In addition to the special attention she gives to the development of serial killers, Reid is also particularly stringent on who she counts as a serial killer. The FBI considers a person a serial killer if he or she has committed “two or more” homicides “in separate events.” For Reid’s definition, however, there must be three or more total murders (or two and an attempted murder), which must also be motivated by “personal gratification” and cannot be a response to a personal attack. The killer must also have killed after “conscious deliberation” and “planned forethought,” and the murders must be discreet events, not a one-time event where the killer murdered multiple people at once.A central goal of her databases is to allow an investigator to narrow down a list of suspects and to predict where and when a serial killer might strike again. So, for instance, if non-college-educated, middle-aged Latina prostitutes from low-income families begin showing up with slit wrists across Chicago, regressing the relevant variables in the databases against one another would create an accurate characterization of the potential killer. Because serial killers aren’t always in police databases to begin with, the results of Reid’s regressions will rarely identify a single killer. A name and face won’t pop up like in an episode of CSI. Instead, a series of character traits and demographic possibilities of the killer, and potential locations and victim profiles of future killings would show up. From this, investigators can significantly narrow their search and hopefully stop subsequent murders.“We can see childhood, adolescence, and adulthood factors occurring in sequence, and how they relate to later-life behaviors,” says David Keatley, a senior criminology lecturer at Murdoch University in Perth, Australia, and an independent consultant on cold-case homicides, who has been helping Reid with the statistical side of her database. “This can then be run backwards. So when we come to a crime scene and see the display of behaviors, we can work backwards through our sequences to see the likely type of offender life-history.”Now that Reid has such comprehensive datasets, the next step is to use machine learning in order to automatically find behavioral and characteristic patterns in serial killers. Reid is consulting with Cosma, with whom Reid worked in Nottingham, in order to find patterns in serial killer behaviors that have never before been thought of, and which could be automatically updated as she gains more data and as future serial killings occur.“We can train machine-learning models to classify killers based on their behavioral characteristics and types of attacks,” Cosma says. “Sasha’s dataset has chronological data, which means it can be used to train machine-learning models to predict when the next attack is likely to happen.”From here, the technology will only advance, but, with it, a variety of positive and negative outcomes will also begin to arise. There is, for instance, the possibility of the privatization of certain types of policing if, for instance, a Silicon Valley machine-learning company were to purchase the databases. Reid wants to avoid this. She wants to keep the use of her databases to a relatively small scope, at least at first, by selecting a single police department with a responsible track record and giving them her database and algorithms to use in their investigations.Her caution in moving too quickly is probably merited, given the history of psychological profiling gone awry, stemming from mistakes made by armchair investigators and professionals alike.“I don’t want to be the person who drives the police down the wrong path,” Reid says. “Profiles should only be used as a way to narrow down and focus. It’s never your first line of defense.”Bruce McArthur was born in 1951, outside the pastoral town of Woodville, Ontario, about 150 miles northeast of Toronto. From his birth until he left to work as a traveling salesman after high school, he lived in a modest, redbrick bungalow, surrounded by prairies. He was quiet and well-groomed, and, as a few of his high school friends at Fenelon Falls Secondary attested, “prim and proper.” With a choice between a five-year academic program and a four-year arts and technical one at Fenelon, McArthur chose the latter. He went by the nickname “Snoppy,” according to his yearbook page. His preferred pastime was “a good argument” and while his ambition was “to be successful,” his probable future was vaguer: “Your guess is as good as mine.”At Fenelon, he met and began dating a woman named Janice Campbell; after graduating, he married her. By 1986, he and Janice had bought a house in Oshawa, midway between Woodville and Toronto and had two children, a boy and a girl. He worked first as a travelling sock and underwear salesman for Stanfield’s and, later, for McGregor Hosiery & Socks, both garments manufacturers. While he was on the road and away from his family, he decided he would reveal his sexuality, telling his wife that he was gay just before his fiftieth birthday. By the late 1990s, he had left Janice and moved to Toronto.In Toronto, he became stockier; he was five-foot-ten and around 220 pounds; his beard had turned white. The few friends he made jokingly called him “Santa.” Living on his own in the capital now, he launched a high-end, one-man landscaping business called Artistic Design, dealing mostly with clients in Toronto’s wealthier neighborhoods like Lawrence Park and Sunnybrook. He met and briefly dated Skanda Navaratnam in the Gay Village neighborhood. He seemed to like him enough that he also hired him on as a landscaper as he expanded Artistic Design in the late 1990s.On Halloween of 2001, McArthur became entangled with the police for the first time. A prostitute he’d hired had called the police after blacking out. The prostitute said McArthur had come to his apartment around noon for an appointment but instead had bashed his head with a metal pipe. McArthur turned himself into the police, telling them, “I don’t know why I did it.” A year and a half later, in January 2003, McArthur assaulted another escort. This man brought forth legal charges, and McArthur was given a restraining order that forbid him from going near the Gay Village or hiring the services of any sex workers in Toronto. After the restraining order ran out, McArthur returned to the Gay Village and spent much of his time at the Black Eagle, a bar. He set up accounts on a variety of gay-dating apps, including Grindr, SCRUFF, Manjam, and SilverDaddies, and began frequently going out. At Black Eagle, he also met a man named Andrew Kinsman, who was tending bar, and convinced him to come work at Artistic Design, dating him briefly as well.In 2010, Navaratnam went missing. A few months later, Abdulbasir Faizi met the same fate, and two years after that Hamid Kayhan followed suit. Selim Esen, a 44-year-old gay Turkish man was reported missing in April 2017. Then Kinsman went missing in June 2017.It was at just after Kinsman’s disappearance that, in late July of last year, Reid was looking through her missing persons database and made her call to the police. She had never before called the police based on a finding in her databases. She didn’t yet have a perfect picture of the killer, but she felt that she at least had to alert the police to the fact that Toronto had a serial killer and describe to them what she thought he might be like.On the phone, Reid identified herself as a psychologist and explained her databases and what she had found. The officer was cordial. He stayed on the phone with her for about half an hour. She explained that she believed there was a serial killer in Toronto and, she told him, the killer had likely murdered the aforementioned men. (None of this was yet public record. Even as late as January 17, 2018, the day before the police arrested McArthur, Hank Idsinga, the police officer who led the McArthur investigation, told me that the police had no evidence of a serial killer in the city. “It’s not as if I didn’t suspect a serial killer,” he had told Toronto Life. “But it would be reckless for me to announce without evidence, ‘Hey, we’ve had five murders. Maybe it’s a serial killer!’ That would incite panic, and there are potential legal implications, too.”)During their phone call, Reid provided the officer with key traits of this potential serial killer to help law enforcement narrow down their search, if they indeed decided to make one. The killer would be a man, she told him, and he’d be working a blue-collar job, probably one like woodworking or landscaping; he’d live in Toronto, and the bodies would probably be somewhere that he could see them or have access to them; he would also probably be active within the gay community.The officer didn’t feel like this was usable information. “We talked things out, but I think we both came to this standstill,” Reid says. “I was like, ‘I have this data,’ and he’s like, ‘Well, what can I do with it?’”The police, frankly, were right to be skeptical. At that point — in July of last year — Reid’s dataset was less complete and her algorithms were slightly different. She also had made a significant error in her prediction. She assumed the serial killer would not be white. There was no personal, racial bias in this prediction, but her algorithm showed that serial killers tend to kill people of their own ethnicity.Reid’s explanation to the police officer that there was a serial killer at all — and her almost perfectly accurate predictions of what he might be like — still made news, and a few small articles in the Canadian press began to appear. The response wasn’t all positive. She received dozens of emails castigating her for her supposed racism for predicting that the killer would be of Middle Eastern descent. She went out of her way to engage with the people emailing her, spending, by her estimate, a few hours every day sending emails and speaking over the telephone, trying to assure people who complained that it wasn’t any of her own bias and that she had meant no harm. But it also underscored something about her work: her data and algorithms, for all of the immense good they could do, could also do real harm.Whether the police did or did not heed Reid’s advice is difficult to tell. (Idsinga said he had no record of any Toronto police officer speaking to Reid. “I have no reason to doubt Ms. Reid’s account or dispute it, but we have no record of it,” he told me.) Just three months later, they found someone with almost the exact profile that she had described, save for ethnicity. In October 2017, police found a red Dodge Caravan that McArthur had sold to a scrapyard for 150 Canadian dollars. Police discovered the blood of one of McArthur’s victims in the van and began tracking McArthur’s activities. In December, they obtained the warrants needed to enter his apartment without his knowledge and copied his laptop’s hard drive. In January, now increasingly suspicious that McArthur was the serial killer that Reid had alerted them to, the police found and sent a series of heavy, fiberglass garden planters to the Ontario Forensic Pathology Service for analysis, which they’d dug up from a yard in Leaside, where McArthur’s Artistic Design had earlier completed a landscaping project.Kathy Gruspier, the forensic scientist who conducted the initial X-rays on the planters, saw something unusual in the scans. When she sawed them in half, she found one human head, multiple human torsos, and a variety of human limbs. In total, in just that one planter, Gruspier found remains from seven separate victims.McArthur was arrested and is currently facing trial on eight counts of murder. (This July, police found another set of dismembered remains in a ravine behind the same Leaside house.) This outcome was, essentially, what Reid had expected.When I ask Reid if she would have been able to identify McArthur as a likely serial killer, even as far back as his childhood in Woodville, she responded wearily. “Absolutely nothing is a surprise in his development and I’m almost certain — although I don’t want to be, like, this hubristic kind of lady — but I have a very good inkling that his story is going to sound very, very similar to that of other serial killers.” Still, she cautions, she neither wants to imply that she can always tell who will grow up to become a serial killer from childhood development nor should police begin collecting huge amounts of psychological information on kids and running them through her algorithms. It’s better, she says, to use those findings to bolster therapy and mental health for young people. “The first line of defense should be dispatching clinicians to juvenile detention centers,” she says. “But I know the McArthur type. These guys are all different, but, in a lot of ways, psychologically, they’re all the same.”McArthur had, true to form, grown up particularly lonely and being in the closet about his sexuality surely only added to his feeling of social isolation. For Reid herself, she had her friend Chris, but as they grew apart in their childhood, she became increasingly alone. Compounded with her parents’ divorce and her deteriorating home life, she says she’s surprised she survived her childhood. “It was not easy to deal with on my own,” she says.Reid’s trauma has not abated with time. She still dreams of buying back her house, turning the lights on and having it become, once again, the fable-like place of light surrounded by a dark forest. But while she says she thinks about it every day, it is also a lasting trauma that has perhaps given her the key to understanding the developmental psychology of those who have suffered in their childhoods but not made it out like her.“It’s still quite bad, and every single time that something from my safe zone fades away or gets changed, that’s an issue for me,” she says, as the light goes down in Calgary. “But that just makes me dive into my work even more. I guess, I’m like an artist in that way: My work gets better when bad things happen.”Since I am capable of doing simple math, I looked it up, and yes, $41,554 (the average woman’s salary in the U.S.) divided by $51,640 (the average man’s salary in the U.S.) results in a ratio of 80:100 or 80 percent.What that means is, on average, women earn 20 percent less than men. (This discrepancy increases as we factor in race, with black women earning 37 percent less and Latina women earning 46 percent less than white men.)What it doesn’t mean, necessarily, is that women earn 20+ percent less than men for working the exact same job.Yes, there are plenty of fields where women are paid less than men for performing the same job. But even if that isn’t the case across the board, women are still paid less than men on average. Why?The most common explanation for the 20-percent wage gap, and the reason many people feel comfortable claiming it doesn’t exist, is that women occupy lower-paying fields of work than men. With this in mind, it would make sense for the average woman’s salary to be less than the average man’s.What this explanation fails to examine, however, is why women occupy lower-paying fields of work to begin with.I’ve heard the justifications for this too. Most often, they involve the idea of choice: women choosing to prioritize family over work, choosing to major in the humanities instead of the sciences, choosing to be nice at work instead of playing hardball.It only makes sense that personal choice plays a factor in the gender wage gap. No one is holding women at gunpoint and forcing them to study cosmetology instead of welding. But there are several ways the choices women make might not be as free as we think.One of the biggest “choices” women make that perpetuates the wage gap is choosing not to negotiate for higher salaries.Women are significantly less likely to negotiate for a higher salary than their male peers. To demonstrate, a study by Carnegie Mellon University found that, of students graduating with a master’s degree, 57 percent of men negotiated for a higher starting salary at their first job. Only 7 percent of women did the same.Some might say this is a result of women choosing to be liked over being respected, which is also a commonly used explanation for why women occupy fewer leadership positions than men.But for women in the workplace, choosing not to negotiate is less of a choice than a survival instinct. Studies show that both male and female colleagues often resist working with a woman who has negotiated for a higher salary because she’s seen as more demanding than a woman who refrained from negotiating, and according to the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, a woman who explains why she is qualified or mentions previous successes in a job interview can lower her chances of getting hired.The fact that women “choose” to be unassertive in the workplace can’t be explained away by claiming they are naturally agreeable or communal creatures. Our complacency is not derived from free choice. Ambitious and often deserving women face an undue penalty for self-advocating, leaving them silent and tethered to a lower rate of pay.Let me start by saying that women are in the workplace, and we’re here to stay—even after having children.Seventy percent of mothers with children under 18 participate in the labor force, and over 75 percent of them are employed full-time. Moreover, 40 percent of families with children rely on a mother as the primary or sole earner of the household.Even though working moms supply the bedrock income of nearly half of American families, mothers earn less money on average than fathers, and the more kids they have, the less money they earn. A study at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst found that, on average, men’s earnings increased more than six percent when they had children, while women’s decreased four percent for each child they had.You might assume this trend occurs because women prioritize family more than men do, and will often choose a flexible, lower-paying job over a rigid higher-paying one. But according to the Massachusetts-Amherst study, this phenomenon explains only a quarter to a third of the discrepancy between the earnings of mothers and fathers.Even so, women’s tendency to choose lower-paying, more flexible jobs isn’t as much of a choice as we think. With fathers in heterosexual marriages contributing only eight hours a week to childcare (as opposed to mothers’ 14 hours) someone has to pick up the slack. And, in today’s economy, where employees who work long hours are rewarded with disproportionately more pay than those who work more flexibly, it makes sense to have one parent compromise their career to focus on the home, rather than to have both parents work flexibly (for less pay) or to outsource childcare.It also makes sense that the parent who compromises their career should be the one who earns less. Most often in heterosexual relationships, this means the woman, which only reinforces the pre-existing gender pay gap.Even in families where the father is the lower-income earner, studies show he is likely to do even less housework than a breadwinning father in order to compensate for his “failure” to uphold gender norms. This obviously pushes an unfair amount of familial responsibility onto breadwinning moms.It’s not that women “prioritize family and flexibility,” it’s that we shoulder the responsibilities of family life at the cost of our careers—and do so because our husbands and our society demand it.“Yeah right,” you’re thinking. “I’d love to sit at home all day and babysit.”First, if you’re interested in a career as a house husband, I’m taking applications.Second, everyone else feels the same way: 39 percent of mothers and 50 percent of fathers say they feel they spend too little time with their children. Everyone wants more time at home with their families, which is why we need an economic system that supports the lifestyle of a family with two working parents, aka the most common type of family in the U.S.Making flexibility the norm at work, offering paid maternity and paternity leave, and sharing the burden of housework and childcare equally between partners would give American women (and men!) the free choice—rather than the personal choice—to prioritize work and family as they please.Another common explanation for why women occupy lower-paying fields of work is that they choose social, lower-paying jobs over technical, higher-paying jobs.While this pattern may be rooted in nature (studies show newborn girls prefer to look at faces while newborn boys prefer to look at mechanical stimuli), women’s preference for soft-skill work does not excuse the pay gap.There is compelling evidence that our perception of valuable work, i.e., industries and job positions deserving of high pay, is influenced by gender. In most cases, this means men’s work is considered more valuable than women’s work.It’s not so much that we value the work women do less, it’s that we value work that’s done by women less.When it comes to the issue of choice and the pay gap, we have to ask ourselves: Are women choosing lower-paying jobs, or are we choosing to pay them less because of their gender?When we talk about choices that contribute to the wage gap, we need to stop explaining away societal inequalities by claiming women choose to earn less. The choice that’s being made is a societal one. We are choosing to keep women out of the most influential spheres of society, from Congress to the Fortune 500.Instead of avoiding investigations into the wage gap by blaming women for the results of a system that disadvantages them, we need to examine our own choices when it comes to who we place in positions of power. Maybe then women will be able to earn the pay that they deserve.As I was shopping in my small Connecticut town this week, I kept running into people raising money. The sailing team was asking for donations in front of the supermarket. The gymnastics team was fundraising with a car wash. A veterans group was fundraising in front of the hardware store. Each group represented a well-established, 21st-century form of crowdsourcing: people asking for financial support from neighbors, strangers, and passersby.There is nothing wrong with such fundraising. I skipped the car wash, but I did throw a few dollars toward the sailors and the vets. Why? While I did not know any of the high schoolers, I felt I could trust that my money would go to their cause. The vets were in their hats and uniforms, and I knew one of them. I was not worried in the least about getting ripped off and felt confident donating to a good cause.But when I arrived home and turned on my computer, I found myself in a whole different world of crowdsourcing. One full of desperate strangers seeking significant gifts to permit them to grasp at treatments and “cures” that might save their lives.My medical colleagues and I had heard about fundraising on the internet for dubious, unproven, and harmful “cures.” Concerned, we undertook a study — which was recently published in the medical journal JAMA — of five suspect medical interventions that people seek donations for online. They included: extended antibiotics for chronic Lyme disease, hyperbaric oxygen therapy for brain injury, naturopathic and homeopathic treatments for cancer, and stem cells placed into the central nervous system in efforts to treat brain injury or spinal cord injury. There are a number of legitimate clinical trials underway for some of these interventions, and people needn’t raise funds to enter those. But they do need significant funds if doctors or healers say they can treat them if they pay out of pocket.Importantly, there are no legitimate, safe stem cell treatments for brain injuries. The consequences of trying a treatment like that can be devastating strokes, horrible infections, or death. The same applies to stem cell infusions for spinal cord injuries. Hyperbaric oxygen has many devotees and providers, but the hard data on its efficacy is nonexistent. Homeopathy for cancer does nothing, and by delaying mainstream care, it can, as Steve Jobs found out, be lethal.In total, the campaigns we reviewed sought more than $27 million. Among those, $6.77 million was raised for the five dubious or dangerous interventions, $3.46 million went to homeopathic and naturopathic quack cancer cures, $1.2 million went to stems cells for brain injury, and $590,446 went to 93 campaigns seeking money for supposed spinal cord treatments.In looking through the campaigns, I realized I was a long way from the crowdsourced fundraising at the hardware store. The amounts sought are often not justified in any way. There is no hint of what the odds are of a person getting better from the treatment they’re seeking based on the experience of other patients. The clinics people said they wished to visit are not at mainstream institutions, and many are scattered around the globe, raising red flags about their legitimacy. No one says what happens to the money if the fundraising goals are not met, nor is there any information about what happens if more than enough money is raised.Our research team is not alone in finding online crowdsourcing for medical care to be a very mixed bag. Another recently published paper found 52 cases of fraud between July 2012 and May 2017, including faking or exaggerating illness, impersonation, or misapplication of funds.There is a lot of good being done through crowdsourcing on the internet. Many generous and kind individuals donate their money in the hopes of advancing a political cause or a line of research. But in raising money for the very ill, crowdsourcing can often become a moral sinkhole where fraudsters prey on altruism and the sick chase “therapies” offered by unscrupulous, greedy charlatans, quacks, or those who are outliers in their fields.So, what ought to be done to rein in the ripoffs in medical crowdsourcing?The biggest host for crowdsourcing is GoFundMe. The San Diego–based company describes itself as the world’s largest “social fundraising platform.” It has raised more than $4 billion in donations from 40 million donors since its launch in 2010. GoFundMe is a for-profit company. It takes 5 percent of donations raised. There is also a 2.9 percent payment-processing fee collected on each donation, along with 30 cents for every donation. That means if a medical campaign raised $1,000 through 10 donations of $100 each, GoFundMe would collect about $80.It is time to bring some order to medical crowdfunding. Companies like GoFundMe should create more standardized campaign templates that lay out the track record of the treatment being sought. They should ask for specific plans for how money raised will be used. They should seek to confirm the identity of those mounting fundraising campaigns. They should run an occasional audit of a campaign to see what is really going on.The media also need to improve their coverage. A desperate patient begging for money jerks at the heart, but fakes could be out there as well. Patients seeking money for worthless, dubious, or unproven treatments could be putting themselves in danger, and that story needs to be told.Medical crowdsourcing is big business. It ought to be regulated and reported on as such.On October 27, the Hallmark Channel began its annual “Countdown to Christmas” movie series with Christmas at Pemberly Manor. You read that right: Since 2016, the channel’s traditional slate of original holiday movies has started before Halloween. How else could Hallmark air 37 entirely new Christmas films before the end of the year?No, that’s not a typo. Hallmark really is releasing more than three dozen entirely new holiday movies for 2018 — and I’m going to watch all of them.I’ve become a Hallmark original holiday movie nerd. It’s a recent development: My fandom began in the middle of October 2017, when my wife informed me we would watch all 33 of Hallmark’s 2017 Christmas films and do a podcast on them. At that point, all I knew about these movies was that they were cheesy, schmaltzy, and utterly formulaic. But I didn’t hesitate to say yes.My wife suffers from depression, and 2017 had been an especially rough year for her. There were many reasons, including difficulties at work and the continuing fallout of the new presidential administration — not that the chemicals in her brain need “reasons,” of course. Just as she began to dig herself out, she broke her hip running in September. After the surgery in mid-October, she was effectively trapped in our apartment for weeks. Given her confinement, the ludicrous amount of movies and the time we would need to watch and podcast about them was actually a boon. (That podcast, A Very Hallmark Christmas, can be found here, if you’re curious.)While I was determined to stick it out, I was genuinely worried that the films would be so formulaic and numerous that I would get bored and need to feign excitement. I was even more worried that she would get bored and give up on the podcast entirely, which might give her more opportunities to fixate on her depression. (I should probably add that this wasn’t my first rodeo, and she has purchased tickets to my rodeo on many occasions, too.)I was right to worry in the sense that we quickly discovered all of these movies are basically the same. They star a hetero couple, one of whom has made the cardinal sin of not loving a secular vision of Christmas to the core of his or her being. Over the course of the film, the lead relentlessly bludgeons the other with Christmas cheer until he or she gives in, and the two fall in love.That’s basically it.If you’re wondering where the drama comes in, well, it generally doesn’t. Occasionally there’s a brief moment where someone misunderstands a situation and thinks the other doesn’t love them, but this usually only happens around the 1-hour-45-minute mark of the 2-hour movie, and is solved 10 minutes later. That time frame includes a sizable commercial break.Here’s what I didn’t expect: Despite all of these movies being essentially the same, they were somehow… different? Although all the movies adhered to the same formula, there was a wide range of variables that could be computed to reach the same answer. Some of these details could be plot-related, like whether the story would add the stakes of staging a small New England town’s Christmas festival, or someone would somehow end up in a gingerbread cookie–baking competition they needed help on, or, memorably, if magical Christmas ornaments were in play (please watch the movie Magical Christmas Ornaments for more details).There are plenty of other variables, too. There’s the chemistry between the two leads, whether the story tries to do anything unique within the formula, whether its jokes are actually funny, and whether its plot makes any sense whatsoever. A personal highlight last year was Christmas in Angel Falls, in which a real — but non-denominational — angel comes to Earth to help a town regain its Christmas spirit. The angel impressively neglects to mention the birth of Jesus even once, falls in love, and turns human to stay with her man, raising several million theological questions.Watching these movies is like drinking dozens of different types of Chardonnay: They’re all the same wine, but they all have subtle differences and bouquets and flavor profiles, and after you drink too many of them you badly need to use the bathroom and may be on the verge of passing out.But my wife and I were surprised to discover how much we enjoyed them. (Usually, anyway: of course there were a few stinkers.) After a shitty day at the hospital, or a shitty day of work, or a shitty day on planet Earth, we eventually realized how nice it was to come home and have this block on our DVR. These movies would not make us feel concern or stress, challenge us, or fail to provide a happy ending. A Hallmark holiday movie became a warm, cozy blanket for our brains to get comfy and sleepy under.Mock them if you want, but many, many people agree with me. More than 72 million people watched last year’s two-month “Countdown to Christmas” event, which explains why Hallmark is churning out more of them than ever. This year’s 37 movies outnumber the 33 entries in 2017, already an increase from 25 in 2016.You could argue that’s way too many — I would personally agree with you, having sat through an entire season’s worth of them myself — but there’s a bigger problem. The overwhelming number of films is also overwhelmingly white.This year, only four of these 37 movies star people of color, up from virtually zero in 2017. Zero films included any LGBTQ characters last year; it remains to be seen if that will improve this year.You don’t have to be cisgender, heterosexual, and white to enjoy the charming cheesiness of these movies, but these privileged perspectives are baked into this massive pop culture event. All I can say is my wife and I were fortunate enough to have this escape available to us at a time when we badly needed it.My spouse and I will still try to watch all 37 movies, because we had fun last year and podcast glory awaits. And 2018 had its own share of challenges: My eyesight has deteriorated to the point where I need a series of surgeries. I’ve had one, but there are two more to go, and it’s becoming increasingly difficult to see. Luckily, Hallmark films don’t require eagle-eyed vision to enjoy.There’s one last reason we’re back for more, and it shocked us the most about this project: We’ve actually never been much for Christmas. We’ve had a tree for only a handful of our 14 years of marriage, with virtually no other decorations. We often don’t even wrap our presents, which is the bane of my holiday-loving mother-in-law.But at some point, after watching people learn to love Christmas in these films, something happened. We purchased a Christmas tree — probably owing to the several million or so advertisements for Balsam Hill artificial models we had seen. After we set it up, we decorated it with the paltry few ornaments we had managed to accrue over the years. We played Christmas music.This year, to commemorate the project and salute the audacity of our 2018 Hallmark movie extravaganza, I put up our Christmas tree on October 27, the same day “Countdown to Christmas” kicked off. In the span of a single year, we’ve transformed from quasi-scrooges into those people.Somehow these movies made a difference. We’ve actually begun celebrating the season as something more than just a chance to chip away at each other’s Amazon wishlists. These ridiculous movies are genuinely bringing us tidings of comfort and, well, joy might be too strong a word, but something like it. I wouldn’t necessarily call it a Christmas miracle, but it’s been a gift all the same.Earlier this year, Amazon became the second U.S.-based company to be valued at more than $1 trillion. Yet for all its dominance and efficiency, Amazon relies on a dusty, centuries-old institution to deliver at least a third—and possibly as much as half—of its packages around the country: the United States Postal Service.In mid-October, I spoke with a mail carrier who works at a midsize hub of the U.S. Postal Service in rural New England. As a rural carrier associate, they make just under $18/hour in a continuous, part-time position. During the week, the carrier says that between 75 and 80 percent of the packages they deliver are Amazon packages; on Sundays, when no letters are delivered, they deliver Amazon packages exclusively, the result of a revenue-generating agreement the USPS entered into with the company in 2013.At the time of the Amazon agreement, the USPS was suffering in the wake of misguided budgetary changes instituted by Congress and the financial crash and was losing $16 billion per year. The Amazon partnership seemed like a godsend. Though even basic contract information remains elusive, we know something about the scale of Amazon’s operation: Early this year, the company announced it shipped more than 5 billion items worldwide through Amazon Prime in 2017; meanwhile, something like half of all Amazon’s shipments in the United States are ultimately delivered by the USPS, an arrangement that market analysts seem to agree is a mutually beneficial one: the Postal Service, which receives no federal funding, reported a net loss of only $2.7 billion in 2017.But the arrangement has also increased the amount of work without also expanding the full-time career workforce. In addition to working Sundays and holidays, part-time employees are called on to cover career carriers’ regular routes if they are on vacation or out sick. These workers are paid less, have fewer benefits, and are beholden to more chaotic scheduling than their full-time counterparts; meanwhile, the increasing number of Amazon packages means more—and more difficult—work.Amazon declined to comment for this story, but the USPS issued the following statement: “Dedicated Postal Service employees across the country are committed to delivering for the American public and have fostered the recent package growth through exceptional performance. Growth in our package business partially off-set the significant decline in mail and is essential to help stabilize the finances of the Postal Service and pay for our infrastructure that enables us to fulfill our universal service obligation. Like any prudent business, we do not publicly discuss specifics of our business relationships.”In early 2018, President Trump called for an investigation of the USPS deal with Amazon, the results of which will reportedly not be made public until after the midterms. In response, Amazon and other retailers formed a lobbying group, the Package Coalition, issuing a barely veiled threat that any changes to the arrangement would have consequences. “The last thing you want to talk about is disrupting one of the few bright spots of the Postal Service,” lobbyist and former Obama administration official John McHugh told Forbes.The implicit threat has even been internalized in the Postal Service itself. “I’ve heard that from my supervisors,” the rural carrier told me. “‘If we upset Amazon, they’ll pull out, and we need their help.’”“I feel like I work for Amazon,” they continued. “I feel like my life depends on Amazon.”The interview below has been edited and condensed for clarity.I get to the office at 7:30 a.m., and then you spend like three to four hours casing mail and sorting packages. You spend most of your time doing the mail, but then you spend about 30 to 45 minutes organizing your packages. You get this hamper full of Amazon packages, mostly. Obviously there’s some priority mail packages and stuff like that, [but] I would say like 75 to 80 percent are Amazon packages. You just start marking them and writing down which addresses have packages that need to be delivered.Then you load up your truck in order, so the packages are in order for first-one-in, last-one-out kind of thing. Then for about four to six hours, depending on how long your route is, you’re driving and delivering packages… I would say my average [day] is like 10 hours.On a Monday, where you just missed Sunday, you’ll have 40 percent more packages and double the mail. On a Tuesday, after a holiday, I had like 12 trays of mail and four hampers of packages. I was casing for eight hours… so I worked a 14-hour shift.Amazon made a contract with the Postal Service that they would add a day of delivery on Sundays: No Postal Service packages with Postal Service postage on them are delivered; it’s just Amazon packages. You still get there at 7:30 a.m., but you’re just organizing and loading packages into your truck. Then you’re just delivering those.They [the USPS] do a computer-generated route every Sunday, so you show up, and depending on who has ordered packages, they hand you a paper sheet of turn-by-turn directions of what the computer has generated as the most efficient route. It’s wildly inaccurate most of the time. I generally know some of these towns now, so I look at these directions, and I’m like “Well, that’s not even remotely the most efficient path.” But you just have to use it because you can get in trouble if you go off route.Oh, we’re tracked by GPS the whole time. Regular days and Sundays. We have little scanners, and you have to scan every package when you deliver it. But [USPS] also tracks you the whole time you’re driving, so they’ll use it to check up on you. Also, one of our safety regulations is that we’re supposed to limit backing up, ’cause we have a lot of blind spots in our stupid, dinky trucks. They can write you up if they notice on your GPS that you backed up a certain amount during your day. You’ll get in trouble. It can track you right to your steps.We’re a huge workforce that’s already driving a consistent route everywhere in the country. They’re depending on this pre-existing fleet of shitty 30-year-old trucks that already go everywhere in the country.It’s a network they can tap into and just feed their packages through without having to establish their own network. It’s the dependability… There’s also just no limit to how much [USPS will] make us work. There’s no limit on days worked in a row with the Postal Service—for RCAs [rural carrier associates] and CCAs [city carrier assistants] at least.In my office, the worst I’ve heard is 17 days in a row. But if you go on the USPS Reddit, which is really good for worker stories, there are people who work months in a row without a day off, especially around the holidays, with literally no day off. I’m kind of an antagonist in my workplace, so I’ve stood up for myself when they scheduled me to work 10 days in a row or something like that. Because we’re so catastrophically short-staffed, they’ve been like “Well, we don’t want her to quit, so just give her a day off.”I don’t know if the tendency to overwork the employees [happened] before Amazon, but the Postal Service just refuses to treat their employees like humans, and we deliver Amazon packages until we drop dead.Yeah, definitely. I’ve heard a few people say: “It never used to be like this.” I think the combination of increased physical labor from delivering the packages is partly what they mean. The other part is just the increase in time worked. Obviously the addition of Sundays and things like that. I don’t know if these are related, but another thing that’s vastly changed is this GPS tracking. They count it in terms of safety procedures—but… there are lot of unsafe practices baked into the way the postal service operates at its core.Truck accidents, which we have a lot of. A few weeks ago, an ARC [assistant rural carrier] from our office, on a Sunday, was looking at those turn-by-turn directions that I was telling you about. The paper ones. He glanced at them because, again, it’s turn-by-turn, and this is a newly generated route for that day. It’s unique every Sunday. So, he doesn’t know where he’s going. He literally just glanced down, and his hand turned the wheel away from the curb a little bit, and then he looked up, realized he kinda drifted, and he overcompensated to the right and hit the curb. Then overcompensated again to the left and his truck flipped over.He’s okay, but the next day, they took us all in the morning for a safety talk and showed us a picture of the truck flipped over. They’re like, “Never look at the mail, never look at your directions when you’re on the road.” They put the blame on him for crashing his truck. In my mind I’m like, “Okay. How the fuck is he supposed to get where he’s going without looking at this?” They make the system work like this, and then they blame you. No matter what, it’s your fault, ’cause you either don’t know where you’re going or you crash your truck.We have a lot of instances of heat stroke. Every morning, when it’s gonna be hot, the postmaster walks around, reads his little spiel like, “Stay hydrated. If you need to take a break, take a break in shade. Safety’s your responsibility.” But when they yell at you to your face about being faster and faster every single day—when the fuck are you supposed to take a break? So it’s like, “Do you want me to be fast, or do you want me to not get heat stroke?” They just tell you these things so that the blame isn’t on them. No matter what, it’s your fault. You’re either slow, or you’re dead. It’s very dystopian. It’s kind of a nightmare right now.The other thing is just the physical toll of this job. It’s been on my mind a lot because I have a few co-workers who have some work-related disabilities. A lot of postal workers have rotator cuff injuries and tendonitis—things like that from repetitive motions. But also just a lot of random ones from accidents. We have one of the highest rates of workplace injuries. I don’t know numbers or anything, but I have two co-workers in particular that I’m thinking of. One is an older woman, I think she’s in her sixties, and she has a knee injury that she got on the job. And she has been dealing with attempting to get workman’s comp for over a year, and she still has to come to work. So she does office duty kind of stuff; she doesn’t go out on the road, but she limps a lot.The other day, I was asking her a little bit about it, and she was like, “You can’t even imagine how much pain I’m in every single day.” And her experience with workman’s comp has been brutal. The whole workman’s comp system is completely fucked up, and these are federal employees! Everyone should have free health care that’s easily accessible, obviously, but people think postal employees are treated better than they are.My other co-worker that I’m thinking of has this shoulder injury—unidentified because of the same issue with workman’s comp. The doctor is just like, “Hmm, I don’t see anything that’s wrong.” Meanwhile her shoulder, she’ll show me all the time, her shoulder slumps down. It’s about an inch and a half lower than her other shoulder, and her hand regularly just is blue. She thinks her shoulder has been disconnected for months, and the doctor that they sent her to is like, “Hmm, I don’t see anything wrong.” And it’s like, I with my naked eye can see that there is something wrong with her. And because we’re short-staffed, they’ve been sending her out on her route, on the road. And it’s her delivering arm, so she’s been delivering mail with a possibly dislocated shoulder.That’s a hard question to answer. The immediate material reason is because we are catastrophically short-staffed and what they would probably consider “consumer demand.” Customers demanding six-day-a-week mail delivery and Amazon demanding seven-day-a-week delivery. I feel like I work for Amazon because the physical toll that the job takes on my body is mostly related to packages, and my lack of time off is mostly due to Amazon because of the Amazon Sundays. This is not really answering the question, but I feel like my life depends on Amazon. I imagine that the Postal Service treats us like this because they’re answering the demands of Amazon. Like, “If we upset Amazon, they’ll pull out, and we need their help.” I’ve heard that from my supervisors.Due to natural human error, once in a while you randomly will miss a package. You’ll get back to the post office and be like, “Oh, there was this tiny package in my truck and I didn’t see it. I accidentally brought it back.” When I was first starting, my supervisor was saying, “Oh, if you miss a package just bring it back. It’s not a big deal. You’ll just deliver it tomorrow.” She goes, “Unless it’s an Amazon package—because we have to deliver every single one of those.” Even if someone paid for two-day priority postal shipping—just as valid a customer as someone who ordered through Amazon—if I miss it, “No big deal, just deliver it tomorrow.” That’s like their refrain. But if you miss an Amazon package, you better turn your truck around and go deliver it.When I’m talking to co-workers, something I’ve been trying to do is just like—everyone’s so understandably bogged down with the day-to-day and just getting through the day. They’re not thinking big picture. If something’s wrong, they’re just like, “Well that’s the fucking way it is.” We all get to that point. You get really beaten down by this kind of work. But I’ve been trying to introduce bigger ideas to people, like, “Does it have to be this way?” kind of stuff.Something I’ve been thinking about is just like, if the U.S. government gave the Postal Service 0.0001 percent of the military budget we wouldn’t have to depend on Amazon. If we even had like a dime of federal funding, we wouldn’t be breaking our backs all the time. We could take a step back and reorganize the whole way the Postal Service works in a better and more humane way.The workers themselves are so tired and beaten down that they haven’t been organizing to push for something like that. It’s a constructed funding shortage that Amazon has exploited for its own purposes. This instituted austerity regarding the Postal Service was the perfect opportunity for Amazon to come in and transform what was at least a mildly public institution into a fully private one.Some money rules — the most obvious, most important standbys — will never change. Save for retirement. Stick to a budget. Spend less than you earn to build wealth.But other pieces of long-held financial wisdom just don’t make as much as sense as they used to. In today’s post-recession economy and rapidly changing job market, some may not make much sense at all.“Save six months’ worth of living expenses for an emergency,” for example, is reasonable advice that has become slightly outdated. Don’t get me wrong — you definitely need an emergency fund—but with today’s rates, many people question the six-month rule. It’s worth pointing out that most people have trouble saving even $1,000 for an emergency. But your emergency fund can also be too big: If you have tens of thousands of dollars in a traditional savings account, you’re missing out on the potentially higher earnings you’d get by investing that money instead. With most banks now offering less than one percent interest, you’d be better off putting some of that money somewhere that will get you a better return.In other words, while the golden rules of personal finance may never change, not all rules are built to last. From buying a home to paying off student loans to finding a way to save for retirement, here are a few pieces of traditional money advice that could use an upgrade.Homeownership was once the core of the American dream. Even with extra costs like property tax, maintenance, and interest, at the end of the day you were putting your money into your own investment instead of your landlord’s pocket, and that meant you made a smart financial move. Or at least that was the prevailing logic.And then the housing crisis happened, and banks encouraged borrowers to buy homes that were way more than they could afford, eventually leading to mass foreclosures, defaults, and plummeting home values. It served up a rude reminder that a home isn’t always a good investment, and at the end of the day, banks are the true homeowners, unless you’re wealthy enough to pay cash. It also shed a whole new light on the upsides of renting.Sometimes you’ll get more bang for your buck as a renter. This is possible thanks to something called opportunity cost, or the potential value you lose when you choose one path over another. It’s like skipping an epic party to stay home and binge watch Making a Murderer. Sure, you had a good time, but what did you miss? Choosing to rent can work the same way: If you take all the money you could have spent buying a home — down payment, maintenance, renovations, property tax, interest, and insurance — and invest it instead, that might yield a better long-term result.Really, though, the better move will vary from person to person. It’s silly to say buying or renting is always smarter because there are so many individual factors at play: where you live, mortgage interest rates, housing prices, how long you plan on keeping the house — the list goes on. So here’s a better rule to follow: Don’t pursue homeownership blindly. Do your math to see which option makes more sense for you. (The New York Times Rent Vs. Buy calculator is the most comprehensive I’ve seen for figuring this out.) Remember how much time you spent thinking about which new laptop you should buy? A home costs 300 times as much as a MacBook Air. Take the time to crunch all the numbers.This is a good general rule. When you’re in debt, you’re paying interest, which is really paying someone money just to owe them more money.On the other hand, student debt is overwhelming. The average 2017 graduate has nearly $40,000 worth of student loans, according to Student Loan Hero. Between higher tuition and stagnant wages, grads are taking longer to get out of debt, which means they’re leaving less time for investments to grow. After all, money is just one resource when it comes to investing, and time is the other — and investing is how you’ll be able to afford to retire someday. Should we really forgo years of potential growth in the market? Especially when so many people are struggling to retire by 65, it’s a valid question to consider.You should absolutely prioritize tackling those expensive, high-interest loans, which can cost you more money the longer you go without paying them off. But instead of postponing any investing until you’re entirely debt-free, consider doing it at the same time you’re reducing any debt that carries a lower interest rate.Here’s why: The sooner you start investing in your retirement, the better, because your money needs time to grow. Time is a crucial element in compound interest, which can cause even modest savings to become impressive nest eggs. And as long as your debt interest rate is lower than the rate of return on your investment — the stock market, for example, has averaged about 6 to 7 percent in annual returns — your money will go further in investments than it will if you put it toward your debt.The same logic applies to mortgage debt. “‘Pay off your mortgage early’ is an old personal-finance tenet,” says Holden Lewis, a writer and researcher at NerdWallet. “The idea was to pay off your mortgage as soon as possible; the shorter the mortgage, the better.” But in recent years, mortgage interest rates have remained low, which has many experts rethinking this rule. It may make sense to allocate your money toward retirement or other purposes. Paying off a mortgage early “is not a smart money move if you have higher-interest debt, you haven’t maxed out your 401(k), or you’re confident that you can get a higher return on investments than your mortgage interest rate,” Lewis says.For a long time, money experts touted the wisdom of The 10 Percent Rule: Put 10 percent of your income into a retirement account. While it’s a good idea in theory, there are a few reasons this rule no longer holds up.For starters, 10 percent was an easier chunk to put away for workers who didn’t have to contend with student loan debt and stagnant wages. But the more daunting truth is, for most people, saving 10 percent isn’t even enough. With longer lifespans, a decline in retirement pension plans and a reduction in Social Security benefits, most experts now agree that workers need to save much more.People may have wildly different income needs in retirement, so instead of blindly relying on 10 percent, calculate how much you’ll need when you retire. Then figure out how much you need to save now, during your working years, to reach that savings goal, so you’re not rushing to catch up in your 50s. There are plenty of online calculators, like this one from Fidelity or this one from Bankrate, to help you figure out how much you should try to save now to retire by a certain age (another reason to rethink paying off all debt before you start investing).Money gurus decree that there’s good debt and bad debt, and the difference is that good debt is an investment. And it’s true that a college degree will generally lead to higher earnings than a high-school diploma alone. But “one pervasive myth that has landed many well-intentioned people in major debt is that all student loan debt is ‘good’ debt, rather than judiciously weighing the costs and benefits of a degree program,” says Kristi DePaul, CEO of Founders Marketing, a firm that works with think tanks, universities, education non-profits and foundations, and edtech startups. In reality, the debt that comes with higher education isn’t always necessarily a good thing to take on.With the cost of education on the rise, today’s student has to think longer and harder about the return on investment of their degree.“There are many practical reasons to rethink what is now often a six-figure higher-ed investment,” DePaul says. “Today’s educational landscape is evolving away from the traditional. The elite brands that once stood for success in specific fields must now compete with a new outcrop of alternative credentials like digital badges and nanodegrees,” or online programs that can teach you specific skills. (Some employers accept them, but others may not be familiar with them, according to a report from U.S. News.)While this type of education hasn’t replaced the four-year degree, it’s true that many major employers like Google and Apple are overlooking the bachelor’s degree as a standard requirement for a job. And the value of a college diploma has plateaued over the past several years; while the wage gap between the average high-school graduate and the average college graduate is still significant, it’s no longer growing the way it did in decades past.This isn’t to say you shouldn’t pursue an expensive name-brand college education or go to grad school. But crunch the numbers, and be open to other paths. As Josh Kaufman, author of The Personal MBA, put it in the blog I Will Teach You to Be Rich, “Taking on loans to finance a credential can make becoming a successful person more difficult than it really needs to be.”Kaufman suggests a sensible alternative: Consider whether the industry you’re planning to enter cares more about skills and experience than it does a college credential. Also, consider the cost of a brand-name school versus a (likely much cheaper) state or community college. Look at a school’s website to find its job placement rates: How many grads find jobs right after college, and what are their salaries? Beware of for-profit colleges, which have gotten in trouble for misreporting these statistics. And by all means, if you’re going to school with a plan to “find yourself” or take a break from the workforce, think twice about the price tag that comes with that. Unfortunately, today’s student has to think more about the money.Finally, one piece of traditional personal-finance advice that might be outdated more than any other has to do with frugality: the idea that if you watch the pennies, the dollars will take care of themselves, helping you to get rich, afford a home, and maybe even retire early. It sounds good, but when you have to contend with structural issues like a massive income inequality gap, a student loan crisis, and barely moving wages, frugality just isn’t as lucrative as it once was. Cutting back on your avocado toast habit will not afford you the down payment for a home any time soon.None of this is to say we should abandon frugality — or the rules of personal finance — altogether. But in order for those old rules to do the job, they have to evolve for today’s reality.When Koeberle Bull received a hateful Facebook message last week from a man who lived more than 500 miles away, she called the police. Dylan Jarrell in Kentucky, who had sent the New Jersey mom of three a violent and racist Facebook message directed at her children, was pulling out of his driveway with hundreds of rounds of ammunition and a plan to commit a school shooting when the local cops stopped him.Because Bull took Jarrell’s violent racism and online harassment seriously — unwilling to brush it off as a remote threat — she likely saved lives. It’s a good lesson for us all and a reminder of that violent expressions of racism and sexism online can be harbingers of violence committed in the flesh. Unfortunately, how things went with Jarrell is the exception rather than the rule.Instead, acts of online hate get brushed off as a heated political discourse, leaving victims of harassment (usually women and people from otherwise marginalized groups) to be canaries in the coal mine — people whose warning cries go ignored.It’s now common to perform a kind of online psychological forensics search after horrible crimes are committed. That’s how we learned that, a few weeks before Cesar Sayoc mailed more than a dozen bombs to politicians and media organizations, the 56-year-old Florida man sent a threatening tweet to political analyst Rochelle Ritchie: “We will see you 4 sure. Hug your loved ones real close very time you leave you home.”When Ritchie reported the threat, Twitter responded that Sayoc hadn’t violated their rules about abusive behavior. “You think to yourself, ‘If you see something, say something,’ and then when you say something, it’s ignored,” Ritchie told CNN. (Twitter later issued a statement acknowledging the company had made a mistake.) It’s also how we learned that the man who killed 11 people in a Pittsburgh synagogue in late October also frequently posted anti-Semitic threats online.Another mass murderer, Elliot Rodger, posted multiple videos on YouTube raging against women who had sexually rejected him, threatening to “slaughter… every blond slut I see,” before he went on his rampage.And yet online harassment and hateful speech still isn’t taken seriously until something even worse happens.But the truth is there’s no such thing as “just a tweet” anymore. Especially not now, when the president of the United States uses social media to dog-whistle his followers’ ire. And anyway, there is ample evidence that violence and harassment — be it online or off — often go hand in hand.Sayoc, the attempted mail bomber, and Gregory Bush, a man who killed two black people last week, also had a history of domestic violence. (The same is true for nearly every mass shooter in recent U.S. history.) Before a high school shooter in Texas killed 10 of his classmates, he spent months harassing a girl in one of his classes. The man who killed five people this year at Maryland’s Capital Gazette stalked a woman he knew as a teenager.Imagine if instead of excusing violence and everyday sexism, we took them seriously. Imagine if a boy in a classroom who repeatedly touched a girl without permission was something that sparked a serious intervention rather than a “boys will be boys” shrug. Imagine if we listened to the people of color who have been raising the alarm about Trump’s racist speech (only to be proven right in the worst way possible). Imagine if we acknowledged the danger inherent in white supremacist speech.Because a country that takes racism and sexism seriously is a country that saves lives.Red flags are everywhere — and we can’t afford to keep ignoring them as if lives don’t depend on it. They do.“Davecat,” a 46-year-old data entry specialist, lives alone in his 600-square-foot apartment outside Detroit, Michigan, but he’s by no means lonely. He has his “wife” of 18 years: Sidore, a RealDoll he lovingly calls his “Missus.” Blood doesn’t flow through her veins, and she can’t eat the eel sushi Davecat purchases them for dinner, but you wouldn’t know it by the way Davecat jokes with her, touches her milky-white shoulder, and plays with her shoulder-length purple hair.“I’ve always thought of human-shaped things… things like mannequins and, in particular, dolls, as having lives of their own,” Davecat told me via Skype, with Sidore beside him. “I believe they have their own ‘soul.’ I view them as people.”For someone who may live in a fantasy, Davecat is exceptionally self-aware. (Like other sex-doll owners I spoke with, he requested I use his online identity to preserve anonymity.) He cracks jokes from Sidore’s Twitter account about being a “Synthetik,” describing her grabbing a glass of water in the middle of the night only to realize she can’t drink. He’s also acutely mindful of the fact that he, unlike Sidore, is going to die one day, which is why he’s already devised a meticulous plan for what happens to her when he does.Davecat would like his body to be cremated, with the ashes stored in a bag and placed into Sidore’s hollow head. “She’s always on my mind in life; I’ll always be on her mind in death,” he says. Then, his best friend will move Sidore into her home where she’ll sit indefinitely in a glass case holding a plaque that reads, “How terrible it is to love something that death can touch.” She’ll wear a mofuku, a traditional Japanese mourning kimono, as well as the necklace he gave her when he first brought her home nearly two decades ago.This plan is subject to change, as Davecat is hoping to gift Sidore with a robotic body for their 20th anniversary, in which case her once-empty head would be filled with hardware. Should this happen, he’ll likely have his remains pressed into a diamond that she’ll wear around her neck and close to the place her heart would be, were she human.As for Davecat’s other three dolls, they’ll go off to live with other “iDollators,” an affectionate term for people who, like Davecat, love and collect dolls. One recipient will be Davecat’s good friend artist Amber Hawk Swanson, who became famous for purchasing and “marrying” a life-size doll made in her likeness named Amber Doll. “It’s a close-knit community where we can take care of each other should anything happen,” Davecat says.Life-size sex dolls are slowly making their way into popular culture: In Houston, Texas, a sex doll company called KinkySdollS recently attempted to open the first sex-robot “brothel” in the United States, where curious customers could test and rent a variety of models before purchasing. Texan lawmakers pushed back on the proposal, though such brothels already exist in Toronto, Paris, Moscow, Germany, and other European cities. A company called Realbotix is now combining programmable A.I. with sex robots, promising users they can “be the first to never be lonely again.”Yet, there’s one issue sex-doll owners have yet to fully resolve: what to do with their synthetic companions after they’ve died.For the most part, options are limited. I reached out to funeral homes all across the country, and not one said they would consider hosting a funeral service for a life-size doll, no matter the price. “I’m an old-school, traditional funeral director,” one man, who asked to remain anonymous, said. “Money does not excite me.” New Orleans-based Charbonnet Funeral Home, which made national news in 2014 for posing embalmed corpses in lifelike scenarios during wakes, said it would also reject requests for sex-doll burials.One option is to do nothing, thus leaving the doll behind for unsuspecting next of kin. Will and trust attorney Mario Correa advises against this and suggests owners treat their dolls like any other tangible personal property or family heirloom, such as jewelry or fine china. “Let’s say you fail to specify someone. Then [the doll] goes into what’s called a residuary estate, and it will go to whoever is the remainder beneficiary,” he says. “By not being clear about certain properties, especially a special asset in a family, that could create problems.” Those issues include, but are not limited to, confusion, embarrassment, and family infighting.The inheritor of a doll may want to resell it (after all, the dolls can retail for upward of $8,000), but hawking one is more complicated than you might assume. On the marketplace site at the Doll Forum, an online space for doll enthusiasts, sellers have to disclose information such as when and where the doll was purchased, what its body specifications are, if it’s had any repairs or has any damage, and of course, if the previous owner had sex with it. Unless someone wrote out all these details and included them in the will, it’d be nearly impossible for someone unfamiliar with the doll to sort out.Though most doll museums are unlikely to accept sex dolls, iDollators might have better luck donating to sex museums, which sometimes display doll exhibits. A representative for the Muse Foundation, a private foundation affiliated with the Museum of Sex in New York City, tells me Muse is always willing to consider donations, though the decision to accept them is, ultimately, “entirely up to the foundation’s discretion.”Some companies, such as Chinese company Doll Sweet Dolls, accept used dolls for recycling or resale. The problem, a representative for the company says, is that the international shipping costs are quite pricey. They haven’t received a single shipment from the United States for recycling or resale to date.Recycling stateside is just as complicated. “Things that are made out of four different materials are difficult or impossible to recycle,” says Robert Reed, the public relations manager for San Francisco-based recycling facility Recology. While most hard plastics, metals, and even some silicones are eligible for recycling, Chris Fu at Eco USA, a silicone recycling facility, says that the average consumer doesn’t have enough knowledge about the materials used to make dolls and robots to know how to sort them in the first place.“If you sent it to a recycling facility, it would just end up in a landfill,” Fu says.With few formal options, most sex-doll owners are falling back on their communities to help them plan for after their death. A New Jersey-based iDollator, who goes by the sobriquet TJ Foxx, has had to confront death more than he’d like. His (human) wife, who has battled various health conditions throughout their marriage, has been dealing with complications from past cancer treatments and is often in and out of the hospital. To cope, both emotionally and sexually, Foxx purchased his first doll, a fiery brunette with piercing green eyes and bold eyebrows called Tasha, whom he refers to as his “silicone soulmate.”“This isn’t really a toy, a sex toy,” he says. “This is something a lot more than that… She’s crazy about me, and I’m crazy about her.”Like Davecat, Foxx has given Tasha and his three other dolls thought-out personalities. Tasha, for example, is a self-proclaimed “fashionista” who blogs about clothes and occasionally models. “I’d say she’s all the best qualities of me, my wife, and maybe some girlfriends I had,” he says. “And just over the years, people I’ve known that are close to me, the things that make me happy about them, they’re all in there.”She embodies the good Foxx searches for during his darkest times and, though she could never truly replace his wife, he said he’d depend on Tasha if his wife died. “Right now, Tasha is kind of a security blanket,” he says. “She’s there to keep me company. All I have to do is have her there sitting next to me.”His wife supports his interest, only asking that he doesn’t disclose the dolls’ existence to their two grown children—an easy trade-off for all the benefits Foxx receives, he says. But hiding his dolls from his kids wouldn’t be possible if he and his wife didn’t have a concrete plan in case one, or both, of them die. “We’ve had enough close calls where my wife is very practical,” he says.He’s listed the dolls in his estate, along with the phone numbers of some of his closest friends, who are also iDollators he met in online doll forums and at doll conventions. In case of death, those confidants will come to the house, clear everything out before the kids might stumble across them, and “make sure the girls are well-cared for.”Foxx, as well as many others in the doll community, are often willing to open their homes and serve as the designated caregivers for their friends’ dolls. But taking in a doll isn’t a responsibility they take lightly.In Arizona, a woman who goes by the moniker Hollywu lives with her “placebo partner,” Rari, a bubbly doll whose Twitter feed is filled with empowering messages. Hollywu first got Rari in 2016 after seeing Marwencol, a documentary about a man named Mark Hogancamp who coped with the aftermath of a traumatic physical assault by creating his own 1:6-scale world using dolls. As someone with bipolar disorder, decades of suicidal ideation, and social anxiety, Hollywu says she was inspired to follow Hogancamp’s lead and create a synthetic reality of her own, a decision she feels improved her happiness and health.“[Rari] just added a totally different dimension to my life… She’s really helped me in a lot of ways,” Hollywu says. “To be able to wake up next to her, come home to her, it’s been great… There’s an old saying, ‘Be with somebody who makes you a better person.’ I think that can apply to synthetic or organic.”Now, she and Rari have synthetic children that they “raise” alongside their two doll roommates, Akiko and Sadako, who also have synthetic kids of their own. In total, Hollywu estimates she has 15 babies and four or five toddlers living under her roof.Hollywu says she’d never leave Rari behind without a strategic plan in place. Though they haven’t met in person, she says Foxx, whom she first interacted with through the doll forum, is “like family” and is the one person she trusts whole-heartedly with caring for Rari. “He would take good care of her,” she says.Still, Hollywu acknowledges that collecting upward of 20 dolls from someone can be a daunting commitment, especially for Foxx, who currently keeps his stored in the basement. “I don’t want somebody to have to feel like, ‘You’re dead, and now I have to hold onto all your stuff.’ That’s not cool,” she says, adding that she’d trust Foxx to find good homes for the babies and, if necessary, Akiko and Sadako.Inevitably, the designated caregivers will die too. When that day comes, the iDollators I spoke with hope their dolls will be passed on to people with similar outlooks. That is to say, people who view dolls as more than just sex toys.Crossing off logistical tasks, like drafting a will, is a good start. But when it comes to dying, end-of-life specialist Michelle Acciavatti says it’s also imperative that iDollators make peace with letting go. Acciavatti—who helps guide people through all aspects of the death process, from providing counseling to planning at-home or green burials through her company Ending Well in Vermont—says she’d happily work with someone who’s worried about leaving behind a synthetic lover. “They are valid relationships, and their attachments shouldn’t be treated any differently,” she says.Acciavatti says a majority of her clients fear abandoning their spouses, children, or even objects like houses. Sex dolls are no different. “Dying, in so many ways, is about losing control,” she says. “So, part of what I try to do, and I hope that I do well, is help people make peace with the fact that there are things they can’t control anymore. What they can control is who they are to themselves.”Davecat, Foxx, and Hollywu hope stigmas against human-Synthetik relationships will dissipate as A.I. and robots become more prevalent. And there’s a chance that, eventually, there will be more formally accepted ways of retiring them when we pass. In the meantime, though, it’s up to each owner to develop a plan for their own doll. Or not. One Redditor says that while he, too, enjoys the company of his silicone lover, he’s not going to lose sleep worrying about what becomes of her when he dies. “When you are dead,” he says, “you don’t care what happens to your doll.”Once upon a time, there was a huge financial crash. Banks panicked and threatened the world economy. Desperate to save capitalism and the monetary system, the U.S. government opted not to punish the bankers. Instead they partnered with them to enact new, disastrous economic policies that raised interest rates. Anxiety rose with inflation. The uncontainable crisis spread. It threatened the financial health of anyone who held debts. The economic prospects of average Americans tanked, pulled down by the arrogance of the bankers who’d conspired with the titans of the new tech boom. Until it all went bust.Eventually, the engines of industry roared back. Business moguls regained the reins. The few Americans who still possessed fabulous, scandalous, outrageous wealth became famous for their good fortune. They were born at the perfect moment to enjoy a rising tide of newfound international wealth and power, generated by the tech-based economic revolution.But for the People, it must’ve seemed like every industry was in revolution. The old ways, the old days, the old bosses, the old country — they were all being replaced or disrupted. Despite the return of prosperity to the stock market, any benefits seemed to defy economic gravity. They only trickled up to the wealthy. Much like the strike plate of an overused anvil, the vast majority of working people felt beat down. Used as a crucible for someone else’s wealth creation, they struggled to survive. Many Americans still brought home paychecks as life-sustaining as thin soup. People had no expectation of having a better life than their parents had. They just hoped it wouldn’t be much worse.As the top one percent conspired to grab tighter control over the business and politics spheres of the day, profits were prioritized over people. Legislation was passed by store-bought politicians. Gross inequality made the country’s other problems fester like a neglected wound. To complicate matters, tensions were heightened on the ground level by a growing backlash against the waves of immigrants arriving on the nation’s shores. Xenophobia and bigotry were on the rise. This happens when people feel financially insecure. It’s one of the surest indicators that hearts will turn cold, prejudiced. It reliably divides people.Onto this anxious scene burst a young, wildly charismatic woman of color, equally intelligent and beautiful. She proclaimed economic inequality morally wrong. An avowed socialist, she crisscrossed the country making her case for a better, more equitable United States. Of course the rich and powerful despised this moralistic young woman who seemingly came out of nowhere, gifted with a devastating magnetism that she wielded like a weapon in her fight to advocate for a better country. They tried to dismiss her. That failed. They tried to make her look foolish in the press. That, too, failed. She would not be denied. She had a moral fire that burned within, radiating from the inside out. This radical brilliance paired well with her flair for publicity.When Lucy Parsons openly advocated for socialism in the United States, newspapers across the country hyped her in bold type as “the most notorious woman in America.” She was Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, 130 years ago. In her fearlessness, in her commitment to solidarity with disadvantaged people, we can still discover old truths and vital lessons, some power moves for how to overcome.Listen carefully, you can almost hear Lucy Parsons as she whispers across time, “We’ve been here before.”Gandhi usually gets the credit, but did you know Lucy Parsons was first to call for nonviolent resistance? She invented it as a tactic for social change a full year before Gandhi ever mentioned it in public, and 25 years before he put it into practice to oppose British colonialism.In her 1905 speech “The Strike of the Future,” Parsons addressed the first convention of the Industrial Workers of the World. She was one of two women invited, and the only one to speak. (The other woman was Mary Harris “Mother” Jones.) In her address, Parsons urged all the men in attendance to engage in nonviolent direct actions, to seize the means of production with a sit-in.You could call Lucy Parsons the grandmother of all the nonviolent movements around the world. Her idea “to strike and remain in” was a direct inspiration not just to Gandhi, but to the 1930s labor movement in the U.S. and its sit-down strikers. She also inspired early Civil Rights activists who first used sit-ins at lunch counters across the South to protest segregation. Martin Luther King Jr. made her practice of nonviolent direct action the cornerstone of his philosophy of moral engagement. This same spirit of open defiance and peaceful demand shows up in the anti-war demonstrations of the Vietnam War. It went international in the Arab Spring movement. It directly challenged capitalism with the Occupy movement. It’s timeless as it is powerful. Use it.Power move: Make your opposition uncomfortable. Tell them that the status quo will not be permitted to continue, even if that means you have to personally offer your body as an obstacle. As activist Mario Savio said, “There is a time when the operation of the machine becomes so odious, makes you so sick at heart, that you can’t take part. You can’t even passively take part! And you’ve got to put your bodies upon the gears and upon the wheels, upon the levers, upon all the apparatus, and you’ve got to make it stop! And you’ve got to indicate to the people who run it, to the people who own it — that unless you’re free, the machine will be prevented from working at all!”Of course, it was certainly rare for any American in 1886 to follow the lead of a woman who was born into chattel slavery. This may be why the story on the street was that Parsons was mixed: part Spanish, part Native, and part Mexican. While Albert Parsons — Lucy’s husband and a newspaper publisher — insisted she was no “dusky negress,” it’s interesting that the person who was principally responsible for the rumors of her alleged mixed background was Lucy Parsons herself. She was dodging 19th century critics who shouted the equivalent of “identity politics!” back before it was cool.Until recently, most biographies claimed Parsons was born in Texas. But according to a recently-published biography, Goddess of Anarchy: The Life and Times of Lucy Parsons, American Radical, we can correct the record about her place of birth and early life. Thanks to exhaustive research and painstaking checks of available records and census reports by her biographer Jacqueline Jones, we now know that Lucy Parsons was born the daughter of a slave in 1851, in Virginia.Most likely, as Jones writes, the “fairer-skinned Lucia was the daughter of her master (that was the rumor around town) or another white man.” Which means she was quite likely the product of rape by her mother’s master. As a teen, Parsons was dragged west by her family’s owner when the former Confederate surgeon chose to migrate to Waco during the Civil War. After the Union won, she and her family became freedmen and freedwomen, the common terms for liberated Black people.In 1872, the tall and strikingly beautiful 21-year-old met a white veteran and they fell in love. Although Albert Parsons was a Texan and had fought for the Confederacy, the hell of the battlefield had radicalized him. After the war, the young journalist started a progressive newspaper, the Waco Spectator. It became his new weapon of choice, which he used to fight for a better world for all. He steadfastly believed socialism was the best tool for building that world. Naturally, he and Lucy gravitated to each other.But before these two firebrands could transform Texas into a hotbed for socialist revolution, in the election of 1872, one year after the Parsons married, Texas Republicans lost big across the Lone Star state. With the return of racist Democrat power in the post-Reconstruction period, Texas was no longer safe for an interracial couple. A report on racist violence in the post-Civil War south that was submitted to Congress in 1871, found that “in nine counties in South Carolina, there were 35 lynchings, 262 black men and women were severely beaten, and over 100 homes were burned.” To avoid similar violence in Texas, the interracial couple fled to Chicago, which at the time was known as an international nexus for socialism and anarchism thanks to European immigrants, who brought their politics with them to the New World.When the Parsons arrived in the Windy City in 1873, they were welcomed by a whole community of like-minded radicals, most of whom were German. Albert Parsons quickly became famous among them, mostly because there were very few English-speaking socialists at the time. To ensure her safety, Albert told people his wife Lucy was a “charming young Spanish-Indian maiden.” This was at her insistence. For reasons only she knows, Lucy Parsons lied about the fact that she was born a slave her entire life. She denied that she was black. Perhaps she did it so that her horizons could not, and would not, be limited by American racism. She denied race — hers, as well as its purpose to divide. Instead, her focus was the liberation of all working people.She was once asked by a reporter from a Chicago newspaper if the ambition of her life was still the same, if she still wanted to “fire the engine that shall run the guillotine to cut off the heads of the capitalists.”Parsons replied, “That is my religion.”She was a devout radical, a woman of the people, armed with a socialist dream. But in a time when lynchings still often made headlines, as racial violence continued to bloody the South, for a journalist and public speaker to say next to nothing about it speaks volumes. And Parsons’s silence on the subject seems to clearly indicate her stance.Her attitude towards race wouldn’t play today. And it shouldn’t. Parsons’s lies and her silence functioned similarly to deny her identity to advance the greater cause of all people. She subsumed herself to liberate everyone else. That’s the wrong sacrifice. By now, we should all know that identities can’t be denied. They can’t be pushed off to the side while we fight for some greater good. In many cases, the right to exist as we are is what we are fighting for.Regardless of how Parsons’ rejection of her own identity may sound today, we shouldn’t rush to judge why she denied her blackness. We don’t know exactly why she did it. As her biographer Jones explains, Parsons “rejected a personal historical or ethnic identity in favor of presenting herself as the champion of the laboring classes; that, she thought was all that people needed to know about her.“ The only self-evident truth is this: Lucy Parsons was a woman way ahead of her time, a black woman unwilling to be limited by her nation’s racism and sexism. Her greater aim was the same.Power move: Building on Parsons’ principled and moralistic approach, Ocasio-Cortez has managed to focus on the issues of our day and articulate a path forward without lying about who she is or downplaying any aspect of her identity. Just as Lucy Parsons reminds us that all politics is personal, Ocasio-Cortez reminds us the personal is always political. Many politicians and pundits these days treat politics like it’s game, scored with points, defined by winners and losers. But politics is how policies affect individuals; how policies limit or support the futures of families, deny or allow for the full expression of a person, ensure and respect the rights of individuals, including their access to medicine and family planning. What’s personal is the root of politics.The term “identity politics” is meant derisively. It’s to suggest that, for example, fighting for the rights of gay Americans was politically divisive. That comes from that game mentality. Fighting for the rights of people to live out their identities is good politics, a winning strategy; it’s unifying. To avoid dismissal of her and her work as “identity politics,” Parsons denied her identity, herself. Today, when Ocasio-Cortez speaks, she equally focuses on all working people, but she is herself. She’s authentic. And she understands that all politics is identity politics. Our rights and freedoms get expressed as our individual identities, that pursuit of happiness, that’s what we’re fighting for. As Ocasio-Cortez puts it, in her fight for the working class she speaks to people’s needs, their individual needs. She gets that we should and must bring our whole identities to any fight we aim to win.In 1886, Lucy Parsons led the very first May Day march, creating an international holiday still celebrated today. She marched hand-in-hand with Albert and their two children; 80,000 marchers followed behind her, along with 100,000 others who marched in cities across the states. It was a rousing success for the labor movement. But just a few days later, as if to retaliate and suppress their success, Pinkerton strikebreakers and Chicago police killed and wounded workers from the McCormick Reaper Works. In response, the Parsons decided to capitalize on the movement’s momentum and strength by organizing a new protest, this time of police violence, which would take place the next day at the Haymarket Square.The May 4th protest was a massive success — at first. The mayor of Chicago even showed up and applauded the peaceful demonstration. But after he left, police moved in to disperse the remaining protestors. As Albert and Lucy Parsons led their people away from the square, an unknown assailant threw a bomb into the crowd. Boom! It killed seven police officers and an innocent citizen. The burgeoning labor movement would never be the same.The press of the day dubbed it the Haymarket Riot, and its organizers were depicted as murderous anarchists, bomb-tossing Socialists, akin to a domestic terrorist today. Lucy and Albert Parsons recognized the new danger. Albert immediately went on the lam. Lucy stayed behind and covered for him, lying to any authorities who darkened their door while she organized protests and fundraisers on the low. (The internet didn’t invent crowdfunding, that’s for sure.)When the murder trial began on June 21, 1886, Albert returned to town and turned himself in to face the judge with his fellow activists. Everyone in Chicago knew the court was biased. It was a sham. The trial was a piece of theater intended to reassert the rule of law and order, not to provide honest justice. In August of that same year, at the conclusion of the trial, Judge Joseph E Gary read the verdict. Guilty. Seven men, including Albert, were sentenced to hang by the neck until they were dead.As her husband languished in prison awaiting execution, Lucy Parsons went on a speaking tour, desperate to raise funds for a new trial that would set her husband and the other innocent men free. Newspapers of the day reported that one Chicago official described Parsons as “more dangerous than a thousand rioters.” She was that powerful as a public speaker. She was that stubborn for progress, that willing to give her time and her body to making the world better than it was, and she did that while counting down the days until her love would be murdered by the land that claimed to be the home of the free and the brave. This former slave would show them what free and brave truly looked like. She turned her pain into power.Today, the Mothers of the Movement do the same thing. They mourn publicly, selflessly, powerfully. At the 2016 Democratic National Convention, Geneva Reed-Veal, mother of Sandra Bland, flanked by other Mothers of the Movement, spoke to the nation about the injustices done to her daughter. She spoke out about how the police murdered her child. She presented her daughter’s story, and her pain to the people. She made the tremendous sacrifice to mourn in public. It’s a truly brave choice to speak out like that, the same way Parsons did, using their voices to ensure the public be aware of the danger, and to prevent it happening to anyone else.On the day Parsons called “that gloomy morning of November 11, 1887,” she had been on the road for months. She’d been furiously busy, still raising funds for her husband’s defense, speaking to whomever would listen. She spoke before crowds at famous venues like Cooper Union in New York. She spoke in humble settings, like in Cleveland, where she addressed her audience from atop a chair she’d dragged into the street after the owner of the venue refused to let her use his stage. She spoke and spoke, she was a one-woman nineteenth century GoFundMe campaign.Harper’s Weekly, writing at the time about Parsons, concluded that the Chicago police, “feared this one woman more than all the chief Anarchists combined. By her talk and other means of instilling their devilish sentiments into the minds of the people, she could at all times escape arrest and do tenfold more harm than the men.”Although she was able to strike fear in the hearts of the Chicago police and win national and even international fame for her efforts, Parsons, with all her oratory power and personal magnetism, failed to save her husband. His execution was scheduled for November 11, 1887. Lucy returned to Chicago in time to demand justice for her husband once more. But her pleas met stony silence. So, she asked to say goodbye instead.“I took our two little children to jail to bid my beloved husband farewell. I found the jail roped off with heavy cables. Policemen with pistols walked in the inclosure,” Parsons recalled in 1937, on the 50th anniversary of her husband’s execution. “I asked them to allow us to go to our loved one before they murdered him. They said nothing.”Police had no compassion in their hearts for the wife of a radical. They didn’t seem to mind having to see her suffer. Plus, after the Haymarket Bombing, public sentiment turned against any men accused of being bomb-throwing anarchists. The law no longer felt a requirement for decency. Ironically, it was the People who kept the Law in check.The New York Times reported that after the noose was tightened around his neck, Albert Parsons spoke at a volume fit for the theater, loud, clear and resolute, “Let the voice of the people be heard, O…” but he did not finish.The trap door swung open, the rope snapped taut, and the police snatched Albert’s life away with just the cruel application of gravity.In a letter Albert penned to Lucy from his death row cell, he passionately denied death’s power to divide them. Knowing his death was certain, he’d asked her a final request:You, I bequeath to the people, a woman of the people. I have one request to make of you: Commit no rash act to yourself when I am gone, but take up the great cause of Socialism where I am compelled to lay it down.That’s exactly what she did for the rest of her natural life.Power move: To show your pain in public can be devastating — for those who carry the trauma, and equally for the ones who witness the enduring legacy of such pain. Parsons would not let the injustice of her husband’s execution break her spirit or silence her. She would not go quietly away as her enemies wished she would. Instead, she took her pain to the people, she shamed the Powers-that-Be, the ones who acted so cruelly, she spoke to the People of her pain to make sure others were aware of the injustice. She did as Maggie Kuhn once said: “Leave safety behind. Put your body on the line. Stand before the people you fear and speak your mind — even if your voice shakes.”I first learned about Lucy Parsons from the folksinger Utah Phillips. In the twilight of his long career, Phillips recorded an album with folk singer Ani DiFranco. It was called My Fellow Workers. Together, they crafted an album celebrating the long history of the Labor movement in the U.S. In his song, “Shoot or Stab Them,” Phillips recounted a story of Lucy Parsons from near the end of her life.Her anger is certainly understandable. If you think women are pissed today, imagine how a Black woman who had to lie about her race just so she would be taken seriously felt. A woman whose husband was murdered by the U.S. government. A woman born a slave, devoted to the struggle for freedom for all people, for all her days. When Parsons passed away, American women had only been able to vote for 22 years. That same right wasn’t guaranteed to Black women until 22 years after she died.Power move: It’s no surprise that the powerful use and allow racism, misogyny, anti-semitism, xenophobia, and bigotry to divide. That’s been their playbook for millenia. So has behaving cruelly to profit in the short term, in a world where they already seem to possess nearly everything. From pharaohs, to kings, to emperors and presidents, this has been the way of the world. Never forget that. Expect it. A long memory helps. It helps you to not feel so overwhelmed, so overcome, so beaten down. This is just the latest chapter in a very long story. A long memory of what came before you can provide you with lessons and inspiration to keep fighting for that better world. It lets you know you’re not alone. We were handed this moment. It’s ours for a brief time, before we hand it off. We can’t drop it.Lucy Parsons was still in Chicago when she died in a house fire on March 7, 1942. Even in death, her life was treated with cruelty by authorities who served to maintain the status quo for the Powers That Be. When the news of the fire broke, the Chicago police and the FBI descended on the charred remains of her home. Why? To ensure her legacy would be buried with her. They confiscated all of her books, letters, personal writing, newspaper clips, anything that might serve to memorialize her or spread her message of defiance. However, what those authorities failed to grasp was something Parsons once said.This is doubtlessly true. Her intellect perseveres. Even more than that, perhaps the best message one can take away from the life of Lucy Parsons is: we’ve been here before.Now, we are here again. The answer to the crisis is the same.Once more, we have a nation beset by rising income inequality. Economic tensions exacerbate the frictions of our social bonds; xenophobia and bigotry are on the rise. But we also have good and true reason for hope, for a legitimate expectation we can build a better world, together.Today, we see a new generation of women of color fighting for a better world. While the anarchist Lucy Parsons may have once instructed tramps to shoot or stab the wealthy, it’s her message of nonviolent direct action that today’s leaders intelligently employ. In elections all across the country, women of color are leading a non-violent overthrow of our government. This is the true power of the People. This is our nation, our government.As James Baldwin wrote in his essay “We Can Change the World,” “The future is going to be worse than the past if we do not let the people who represent us know that it is our country. A government and a nation are not synonymous. We can change the government, and we will.”While many now know the name Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, she’s not alone. We’re lucky to have a whole wave of women of color leading this new nonviolent revolution, and doing so in the spirit and tradition of Lucy Parsons. Whether it’s Ayanna Pressley, or Stacey Abrams, or Deb Haaland, or Ilhan Omar, this wave of powerful, committed women is inspiring the next generation of Americans to imagine a more equitable world, a more just world, a world where humanity is valued over profits, and based on the fact the People always have more power together than any small cadre of wealthy white men wish to claim. This is a good and true reason for hope.The tool Lucy Parsons hands us is solidarity, with one simple command: wield solidarity like a hammer. Use it to knock down and destroy that which deserves to be razed, and equally use it to cleave together powerful new structures.You want to help? Organize. Pick up that hammer. Help build. Or, if you prefer, help knock down a lead at the polls. Go door-to-door. Sacrifice your body by canvassing for a candidate you support. Use what so many fought and died for you to have: Vote. There’s a reason certain political leaders are scheming so hard to deny citizens their voice, their right to vote. It’s People Power. We have to flex it. While it’s notable that as an anarchist Parsons would likely not push you to vote, it’s equally true that her legacy is a constant call for action. Listen to her call. And know that we all owe a debt of gratitude to Lucy Parsons for showing us a way forward. Like fingers wrapped around the handle of a hammer: strong, defiant, together.I’ve thought about this piece, involving the experiences of journalists of colour, a lot the last few months.The piece, republished by Poynter in June, spoke to the challenges journalists of colour can face in a lily-white industry. The unending fight to share other perspectives. The inner debate to stay or go. The exhaustion of it all.I suppose the piece stuck with me because I’ve fought at least some of these same battles. If you leave it can feel like you’re letting other people of colour down, throwing in the towel on whatever change you had one day hoped to see. If you stay each instance in which your outlet drops the ball on a matter of race can feel like a body blow.Last week I finally decided to leave. I cleaned out my desk and walked out of The Globe and Mail newsroom in Vancouver. I am today, this morning, formally resigning. My departure is the result of both a single incident and a continuing pattern. It’s unplanned but not out of the blue. I do not have another job lined up. I do not know what comes next.I write this piece with the hope it will lead to meaningful reflection on the lack of diversity in Canadian journalism and the problems therein. But I have worked as a journalist in this country for the last decade and with the solutions as obvious as they are unacted upon — hire more people of colour, hear their voices, elevate them to positions of power or prominence — I cannot say I am particularly optimistic.I was assigned my final Globe story — I did not pitch it — last Monday, on October 22. It was a follow to the Vancouver civic election, which had seen the city vote in a nearly all-white council. The assignment came after the bureau’s morning meeting in which the discussion of the new council centred heavily, if not entirely, on its ethnic makeup. The story folder and headline later emailed to me by the assistant editor confirmed this view. Another colleague kindly sent me the names of some people of colour to potentially interview.I was given five-plus hours to write the story and I set out to speak with some of the people of colour who were on party slates but picked up thousands fewer votes than their white colleagues. The conversations were thoughtful and heartfelt. We discussed their pride at seeing a progressive council but their disappointment in not being on it. We discussed some of the racism they had endured either during the campaign or in the last few years, as the Vancouver area has been consumed by talk of foreign real-estate buyers and money laundering. In one interview we discussed the challenge of being seen as truly Canadian when your skin is not white.I notified the bureau chief when the interviews were complete and said I was about to begin writing, as there was less than 90 minutes to deadline. The bureau chief soon walked over to my desk with a message: I was to focus less on the issue of race and to focus more on the fact eight of the 10 elected councillors were women. She said this had been a focus of the bureau’s morning meeting (it had not). The bureau chief had also emailed me a second story folder, this one with a headline mentioning only the women councillors.I had told the bureau chief I would, of course, mention the electing of the eight women. How could I not? How could a story about who didn’t make it to council not mention high up who did? But the public discussion seemed to centre on the fact a city in which 45 per cent of people are of Asian descent did not have a single such person on council. It seemed more a story of who was not represented than who was. I felt we were making a choice that would undercut the voices of people of colour. This, to me, did not seem a story of triumph.Shortly after the conversation at my desk ended I walked into the bureau chief’s office. I said I did not agree with what she had said. I felt it was a mistake.She was not receptive. The bureau chief told me what I thought did not matter. The newsroom, she said, was “not a democracy.”And on those two points, I realized, she was right.To be a journalist of colour can be to walk a tightrope. On which issues do you weigh in? On which issues do you not? What do you pretend you didn’t see or hear? When that isn’t possible to what do you cowardly chuckle along?The world has gotten uglier in recent years — I wasn’t exactly thrilled with how we were doing on race before that — and for me it has become more difficult to let things slide.When a story or column does not adequately, if at all, understand or consider the perspectives of the nonwhite people it involves, what do you say? When a story involving people of colour is assigned with a colour-blind lens and a false sense of objectivity, what do you do? When you pitch projects on race and multiple times see the boss prefer a race-related project pitched by a person who is white, regardless of your read of the room, what is your recourse? When you ultimately stop pitching stories on race to preserve your own sanity, what good are you doing the very nonwhite people whose perspectives you deem yourself to be in the newsroom to share?How many battles do you have in you?I decided to leave The Globe and Mail because that final conversation inside the bureau chief’s office crystallized what I had felt: What I brought to the newsroom did not matter. And it was at that moment that being a person of colour at a paper and in an industry that does not have enough of us — particularly at the top — felt more futile than ever before.Again, I hope this piece will lead to thoughtful reflection on diversity in Canadian journalism. I hope that in writing publicly about this I can have more of a positive impact than I feel I’ve had in recent years. And if this post provides any support or comfort for other journalists of colour, or empowers them to share similar experiences, all the better.I want to close by apologizing to people I interviewed for stories that did not run. I am sorry to have taken up your time.I also want to thank my wife, my family and my friends for their support during what has been a difficult period.Sunny Dhillon is a Vancouver-based journalist. He has reported for The Globe and Mail since 2010 and was previously with The Canadian Press. He holds a Master of Journalism from the University of British Columbia’s Graduate School of Journalism.Until quite recently, films like 1954’s Abstract in Concrete were banned for American viewers. Although produced with U.S. tax dollars, this cinematic interpretation of the lights of Times Square was meant for European consumption only. Like the rest of the art and culture exported by the United States Information Agency, Abstract in Concrete was part of a propaganda effort to make our country look more free, open, and tolerant than many of us preceived or even wanted it to be. In the mid-1940’s, when conservative members Congress got wind of the progressive image of America we were projecting abroad, they almost cut the USIA’s funding, potentially reducing America’s global influence.Well, America today is in no danger of projecting too free, open, or tolerant a picture of itself to the world. But I’m starting to wonder if maybe the nationalist, xenophobic, inward-turned America on display to the world these days might just be the real us — the real U.S. Maybe the propaganda we created to make ourselves look like the leading proponents of global collaboration and harmony was just that: propaganda.Since the great World Wars, America has had a vested interest in fostering a certain global order. President Woodrow Wilson, who had run for president on a peace platform, ended up bringing America into World War I. When it was done, he established something called The League of Nations, which was meant to keep the peace. Thanks to an isolationist Congress, however, the United States never actually joined the League of Nations. That should have been a big hint that America’s interest in global cooperation was fleeting, at best.During World War II, Roosevelt took his shot at global harmony with his “Declaration by United Nations,” which eventually gave birth to the UN, dedicated to international peace and basic human rights around the world. To most Americans, however, the United Nations represented little more than a way of preventing the sort of war that would again require American intervention. Yes, it was in New York, and yes, it was conceived and spearheaded by Americans but this didn’t mean that America really thought of itself as part of a great international community. The UN was really just a way for us to avoid having to go “over there” again.This was surprising to me. I grew up in the 1970s, at the height of America’s cultural outreach to Europe and the world. I remember how great Russian artists and ballet dancers would come to New York, and how American artists and writers would go to Europe. There were exchange students in my high school from Italy, France, and Germany. The outside world — the international society of musicians, writers, thinkers that America was fostering— seemed more artistic, cultural, and tolerant than what I knew here, at home. It seemed like the future.This was by design, and part of a propaganda effort that began in the 1940's. Once the USSR and the U.S. divided Europe into East and West and the Cold War began, America went on a propaganda effort to present itself as more enlightened and free than the communists. The State Department, the CIA, and the United States Information Agency, as well as an assortment of foundations from Rockefeller’s to Fulbright’s, all dedicated themselves to painting a positive picture of America abroad. This was big money; by the late 1950’s the USIA alone spent over $2 billion of public money a year on newsreels, radio broadcasts, journalism, and international appearances and exhibitions. This included everything from Paris Review articles to Dizzy Gillespie concerts.The problem was that the image of America that these agencies projected to the world wasn’t the image many Americans had of their country. Information agencies were busy trying to make us look like an open and free society, as sophisticated and cosmopolitan as any European one. So, abstract art exhibits and films, book collections with modernist novels, intellectuals, people of color, modern dancers, and all sorts of avant-garde culture was sent for consumption abroad.Conservative Americans, as well as the senators who represented them, saw this stuff as gay, communist, Jewish, urban, effete, and an altogether terrible misrepresentation of who we were and what we stood for. Why, they asked, should we be spending upwards of two billion dollars exporting decadent, self-indulgent art and culture to the world?So Congress — convinced that there was still a national security advantage, or at least a business justification, in maintaining American global outreach — passed a compromise called the Smith-Mundt Act in 1948. The law made it illegal for the USIA to release any of its propaganda within the United States. Ostensibly, this was to protect Americans from the potentially manipulative propaganda it was spreading abroad. Information is a form of PSYOPS (psychological operations), after all, and we are not going to use such weapons on our own people.But the real reason for the Smith-Mundt act was to prevent Americans from seeing themselves represented in ways that they didn’t agree with. The books in the traveling library were titles that many Americans thought would be better burned than celebrated. And the overall ethos of the program — to promote America’s internationalism and free society — were in direct contradiction to the values that many Americans held. The Smith-Mundt act created a wall between the image of America we exported to the world, and the one we maintained about ourselves.By the time the Internet emerged, this division became impossible to keep up. YouTube, the Internet Archive, and Facebook bring everything to everyone. So in 2012, Smith-Mundt was repealed. Concerned netizens saw a conspiracy. Did this mean the government would now be free to use its psychological warfare on U.S. citizens? Perhaps. But the real intent was to relieve the government’s communications agencies from trying to hide their messaging from Americans in an age when hiding such programming is impossible.But now that Americans are becoming more aware of America’s internationalist activities and sentiments, many are horrified and calling for retreat. This is the province of George Soros, the Rothschilds, and the Zionist conspiracy — not the good old U.S. of A. I wonder: was the Smith-Mundt Act hiding an internationalist and open-minded America from the few Americans who weren’t ready for it? Or was it simply hiding the nationalist and backwards-thinking America from the world? For all our efforts at telling Europe otherwise, maybe we are not really the modern society we self-styled proponents of public diplomacy like to think we are.The measure of a civilization’s advancement is its capacity to insulate its people from the cruelty of nature. Right now, Americans don’t seem to be dedicated to that principle. Civilizations build public roads, baths, aqueducts, and later transportation, healthcare, and education into the fabric of society, as givens. Instead of seeing the poor as deserving of discomfort, civilizations see all human beings as deserving of essential human dignity. The more a civilization can spread these basic human rights and freedoms through the world, the more advanced the civilization.However, this particular understanding of modernity and enlightenment is not universal. Instead of breaking down boundaries and building an international society, America’s current stated goal is to reject globalism, build walls, and treat other nations as business competitors. The America we were once hiding behind billion-dollar international culture campaigns is now the America we are broadcasting to the world. Instead of compensating for our American-made missiles with progressive art and media, now we are justifying their sale and use with America-first rhetoric.America’s best hope for cross-border connection, identification, and intimacy is its people. This means you and me, sharing our beliefs, aspirations, culture, and compassion with as much of the world as possible. Just as conservatives fought against the export of an America they didn’t agree with is, it’s the progressives’ turn to speak on behalf of the connected and collaborative world we still hope for — even if we aren’t fit to be its leader, anymore.Unlike most everything else she did in her life, Amanda, a 41-year-old executive at a Boston-area creative agency, began her affair without much thought. It was just drinks with an old friend. When drinks turned to dinner, and dinner turned to sleepovers four months in, she didn’t stop it. It wasn’t weakness at play, she thought, but something else.“As awful as it was to my family, and I knew it was awful, I couldn’t resist the draw,” Amanda, whose name we have changed to protect her privacy, says today. She had a thriving career (and salary to match), plenty of friends and interests, a devoted husband, a beautiful home by the beach. And yet what she liked most, she says, besides the great sex, was the ability to be someone else for a while.Once assumed to be the purview of powerful men — a notion #MeToo has done little to debunk — adultery has become something of an equal opportunity endeavor. Several studies, including research in progress at the University of Kentucky’s Sexual Health Promotion Lab, has found that women are now cheating at nearly the same rate as men, according to director Kristen Mark, PhD. Numbers from the National Opinion Research Center’s 2016 General Social Survey, meanwhile, show that although the percentage of men who admitted to infidelity has held steady over the past two decades, the percentage of wives who reported having affairs rose almost 40 percent — a trend that’s holding steady in 2018, says Tom Smith, director of the survey.Experts think there are a few practical reasons for this shift. There’s the internet, of course, which has made finding a better or different partner — not to mention your high school boyfriend — easier than ever. There’s also economics. The increasing number of female breadwinners means more women are not financially reliant on men. Combine those factors with a cultural shift that has women increasingly willing to push up against prescribed gender norms — in this case, that men cheat for sex and pleasure while women cheat for love and attention — and you’ve got a recipe for change.The fact is that good old-fashioned lust appeals to plenty of women, too. In her new book, Untrue: Why Nearly Everything We Believe About Women, Lust, and Infidelity Is Wrong and How the New Science Can Set Us Free, author Wednesday Martin, PhD, points to research that says some women are genetically predisposed to “extra pair bonding.” Men — however they might argue otherwise — don’t have this gene. “Many experts now believe that women struggle as least as much as men and probably even more with monogamy,” Martin says, “and that they actually require variety and novelty of sexual experience more than men do.”And as women have more agency regarding who they pair up with, they’re more willing and motivated to make a move when something’s not working. “The gender gap in adultery is closing and it’s not just about opportunity and possibility,” says Helen Fisher, Ph.D., author of Anatomy of Love: A Natural History of Mating, Marriage, and Why We Stray. “But it is about choice. Women now are more inclined to demand to have all their needs met.” Fewer women are marrying out of need, Fisher says; instead, they’re marrying to please themselves. But that also means when they’re dissatisfied with something, they can feel justified to go elsewhere.That’s not to say they want to go so far as divorce — and, in fact, even as adultery is on the rise, divorce rates are falling. “Cheating can be a bit like using a bazooka for an ant problem, a reaction to existing issues,” says psychiatrist Laura Dabney. “But for many women who say they’re in ‘happy’ marriages, which is a lot of the women I see, there is an ‘I want it all’ part of it.”Martin puts a more overtly feminist, or at least sex-positive spin on it: “Why would you get divorced just because you want to have sex with someone else? What is that equation? It makes no sense to lots of women, just like it makes no sense to lots of men.”Amid the political spotlight on gender equality, there’s also not a little bit of earned rebellion going on, a backlash to the idea that if a woman cheats, she’s damaged and slutty, but if a man cheats, he’s, well, a man. Playing the role of the “good wife” — whether that means dutifully making dinner or, you know, not fucking the neighbor — is no longer desirable for most women.“Sexual behavior happens at the confluence of clitoris and culture,” says Martin, who argues that tolerance of women who are not monogamous — which is still low but steadily rising — is the most useful measure we have of gender parity. “The ‘privilege’ of infidelity has historically belonged to men. But female infidelity is the most radical but also the most basic version of female autonomy. And in that sense, it’s very much about power.”In Untrue, which was in part inspired by her own struggles to stay monogamous, Martin also challenges outdated gender-based notions for why women cheat — that is, for emotional pleasure, like love or intimacy or validation, in contrast to why men do, which is to say for sex. “Other than the fact that women encounter a lot more stigma for doing it, which is significant, there is no big difference in the female and male cheating experiences,” Martin says. “Men and women alike cheat when there’s no perception of ‘problems in their relationships.’ Plenty of women are in it for the sex.”Science confirms this, Martin says, pointing to the work of researchers Alicia Walker and Marta Meana, whose studies conclude that women’s sexual desire is no less strong than it is for men, and that, in fact, such desire could be stronger due to an evolutionary draw to increase one’s chances of healthy reproduction. Meana’s research also shows that women struggle more than men do with the institutionalization of relationships, overfamiliarity with partners, and desexualization of roles in long-term relationships, all of which has led to a certain set of female overachievers using infidelity as a “workaround” strategy. “They want to stay married, but they also want great sex they’re not getting from their marriages,” says Martin. “Women are pragmatic sexual strategists. We always have been, and that’s why Homo sapiens are here today.”Couples counselor Rachel Zamore says that carrying on an affair requires an ability to compartmentalize—something that is also useful in business. The fact that Amanda is the family breadwinner didn’t factor into her affair, she says; she never considered the affair something to which she was entitled. At the same time, Amanda says that she thinks her equitable marriage probably made her less satisfied in the bedroom while her financial independence made her less fearful of the consequences. “That’s the thing about playing fair,” she says. “It’s not all that sexy.”Lauren, 43, admits she wanted it all: “the best friend, the domestic partner, the professional equal, the lover,” she says. She had two out of four when, eight years and one baby into her marriage, she began sleeping with a co-worker. “A healthy attraction to a person does demand you have a little bit of intrigue and imbalance, which in male-female empowered relationships is not a priority,” says Lauren, whose name we changed to protect her privacy.“Wanting some heteronormalcy isn’t something people want to talk about in that bourgie Brooklyn world I live in. A lot of women I know stick with it and suffer through it even as they have that fantasy of being with someone who is their equal, or even their superior.” She was a different person than when she began the relationship, she realized. He was not.“For a certain kind of high-powered, hard-driving woman, what’s the creative expression of ambivalence?” says Sarah Gundle, PhD, a psychologist in Manhattan. “Working women, working moms don’t really allow for a lot of ambivalence. Maybe behind closed doors with our closest friends, we talk about how crazymaking parenting can be. But the part that is ambivalent about being a mother, wife, breadwinner… the expectations for high-achieving women to hold it all together are wildly high. They end up having affairs not because they’re unhappy in their marriage, but because the pressure of feeling they have to be perfect ends up being explosive.”In fact, Gundle says, most women she sees don’t know why they’re having an affair, even as every last detail of the rest of their lives is planned out. “It puzzles them,” she says. “They’re thoughtful, reflective people who come to me and say, ‘I don’t know why I’m doing this.’ Because for the most part, [the affair partner] is not someone who fulfills their heart’s desire better than their husband.”But while more women cheat, they don’t necessarily leave — and neither do their husbands. Part of that could be that as women gain more powerful roles in the homes, the men in their lives are necessarily more evolved. “Just as women are getting more power in relationships and holding more power as breadwinners, more men are claiming their emotional and relational selves,” Zamore says. “There’s a softening of those gender lines.” They could also be more afraid of the consequences, given the fact that although wives increasingly make as much if not more money as their husbands, the men still do far less of the domestic work, evolved partners or not. “I knew I wanted to stay together, because I still loved her, despite what she’d done,” says Bart*, a 47-year-old high school math teacher whose wife had an affair last year. “But I was also really scared to live alone.”And, of course, there are still plenty of women who seek out affairs not because they feel powerful, but because they don’t. Susan, who asked that her name be changed to protect her family’s privacy, is married to a diplomat. Her kids are grown; she has plenty of money. But her husband travels often, and when he’s home, he drinks a lot. “I got lost in all that,” she says. So she started an affair with a friend—what did she have to lose? “At the time, I thought I was powerless,” Susan says. “By contrast, I felt so powerful in the affair, so alive and wanted.”Eventually, Susan says, she realized she was confusing power with novelty. She called off her affair and talked to her husband instead. “I had made something happen for myself,” she says. “It was a way of claiming independence. But once I had that, I understood: People who are truly empowered don’t need to lie or betray trust.”The tech company announced Tuesday that it will build its new MacBook Air and Mac Mini computers using “100 percent recycled aluminum.” The move is part of a goal Apple set in 2017 to use only renewable or recycled materials in its products. While shifting to recycled aluminum is a step in the right direction (mining bauxite, the world’s primary aluminum source, is dangerous work and poisons the environment), it’s more of a PR win for Apple than a meaningful victory for the planet.Aluminum is just about the easiest metal to recycle, and there’s tons of it already on the market. In fact, most of the aluminum Apple uses is probably already recycled, according to Gay Gordon-Byrne, executive director of the Repair Association, which advocates for companies that repair old devices.The announcement “makes Apple sound noble and sustainable when any manufacturer that needs to buy aluminum is also buying 75 percent recycled content without making any special effort,” Gordon-Byrne says.Apple says it will collect some recycled aluminum from shavings left over from producing iPads and other hardware. But the company has conspicuously not promised to collect all its recycled aluminum from its own dross, meaning the casing of your next MacBook Air is likely to contain bits of airplane fuselage and old soda cans.It’s likely that this aluminum would have been purchased by someone else anyway, and it’s hard to see how Apple’s announcement amounts to a significant environmental victory if it’s not creating incentives to dramatically increase the amount of recycled aluminum on the market. The company did not immediately respond to Medium’s request for comment about this.Buying recycled aluminum is simple, cheap, and probably a good business decision for Apple anyway, according to Kyle Wiens, who advocates for responsible device recycling and serves as CEO of iFixit, a site dedicated to repairing gadgets.“Aluminum is one of those things that is always recycled,” Wiens says. “It’s way cheaper to recycle aluminum than mine new bauxite ore, so there’s a strong market demand for scrap. Really, this is the lowest hanging fruit on their 100 percent recycled material pledge.”Apple’s new policy does highlight a real problem though. Mountains of discarded iPhones and tablets litter the globe, fueling a growing environmental crisis that destroys ecosystems and hurts workers, mostly in the global South. The economy generated nearly 50 million tons of e-waste in 2016, and this number is on track to jump 17 percent by 2021, according to a 2017 United Nations-backed report. Full of harmful materials like lead and cadmium, e-waste leaks poisonous chemicals into the soil and water. And it exposes workers in countries like Thailand, which receives heaps of broken devices from the United States, to toxic fumes as they pick through scrap piles looking for rare metals.Apple isn’t the only tech company contributing to this problem. In fact, the company may generate less e-waste than other tech firms, since Apple users tend to hang onto their products for around four years and can sell old devices back to the company or to third-party retailers for a decent price. But with 1.3 billion active devices worldwide (and countless more in landfills), Apple is still responsible for a huge amount the world’s dangerous electronic junk.Apple’s business model practically guarantees waste. Rolling out new, updated products and software each year makes perfectly functional tech obsolete and encourages consumers to toss electronics stuffed with heavy metals every few years. Apple’s iOS 12, released last month, is the first of the company’s annual software updates that doesn’t condemn a generation of iPhones to incompatibility overnight. That’s good, but it’s an exception to the tech industry rule. The auto industry pioneered the annual update back in the 1920s, when it introduced “model years.” This demand-boosting technique is now a staple of growth-based consumer capitalism, especially in tech, whose major players increasingly pass off cosmetic changes as substantive product improvements. Such “planned obsolescence” is one reason Apple and rivals like Samsung, with its unending parade of new Galaxy phones, make so much money.It is possible to recycle old iPhones and MacBooks, but it’s not clear that many people do. And Apple has made it notoriously difficult to fix aging hardware. For instance, the company uses proprietary screws that make it tough for consumers to tinker with their devices. It has also spent some of its considerable resources lobbying against “right to repair” legislation that would make it easier for third-party shops to fix your gadgets, creating roadblocks for consumers who would rather keep their old devices than buy new ones.“The single best thing Apple could do to improve their actual impact on the environment is to embrace ‘right to repair,’” Gordon-Byrne said. “I suspect Apple has done the math and knows full well that marketing sustainability is much cheaper than actually doing it.”There’s another reason to doubt the significance of Apple’s latest announcement: Apple products are still brimming with toxic, tough-to-mine, hard-to-recycle heavy metals like lithium, cobalt, and neodymium. That last metal is very hard to recycle, but there are ways to reuse the first two. And while Apple has announced efforts to recover old cobalt, the company isn’t doing as much as it could. Heavy metals make for particularly nasty e-waste, and buying them from suppliers sometimes means supporting child labor. Indeed, much of the cobalt found in consumer tech comes from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where child labor is routinely used in mining operations, according to a 2016 report from Amnesty International.Apple is the most profitable company on earth. If it wants to dramatically reduce its environmental impact, it can. Don’t let the 100 percent aluminum pledge fool you. A company as powerful as Apple can and should be held to a higher standard.Jamal Khashoggi’s horrific murder should be a wake-up call. It may be the nth such canary in the global coal mine—the Committee to Protect Journalists reports that 28 journalists have been murdered in 2018—but Khashoggi’s brutal slaying in the Turkish consulate seems to have caught the nation’s attention. Because of Saudi Arabia’s deep ties to the Silicon Valley investment architecture, even the typically aloof captains of technology industry have been forced to respond.Saudi Arabia, a perennial oil-economy powerhouse, has been reading the writing on the wall. Alternative, renewable, and less environmentally damaging energy sources become cheaper and more efficient with each passing year. Simultaneously, consumer aversion to oil-based products continues to rise. The kingdom’s plan to diversify their assets involves huge investments in the technology world, and Bloomberg reported that the Saudis hope to invest $2 trillion into the tech sector—much of that in Silicon Valley startups.The Saudi government has invested $3.5 billion into Uber, and they’ve invested more than $45 billion into a fund owned by SoftBank called the Vision Fund. Between the princes, the government-run Public Investment Fund, and their investments via SoftBank, the Saudis own stakes in lots of big names, including Nvidia, Slack, DoorDash, Twitter, WeWork, ARM, Snapchat, Uber, Lyft, Tesla… the list goes on.Many business leaders, including Uber’s CEO and the CEO of SoftBank, are publicly snubbing the Saudis by withdrawing from the Saudi investment conference. It’s better than nothing, but the technology world needs to do more than play Mean Girls with the Saudis. Tech companies that want to stand up for free speech should do everything they can to forcibly buy back shares tied to the Saudi government. Startups seeking investment should make it known they will refuse to take Saudi money. Big investment groups like Kleiner Perkins should similarly pledge they will not invest in a company that agrees to accept Saudi investment.The willingness of tech companies so far to get on the Saudi dole speaks volumes about their false commitment to idealistic “core values” that drive business decisions. It’s not as if Saudi Arabia became an international villain overnight; the repressive kingdom has a long and brutal history that stands in almost perfect opposition to the cosmopolitan values that Bay Area companies ostensibly align themselves with.I’d love to see the industry titans make meaningful commitments to important global issues such as free speech. However, it’s unlikely that the CEOs and executives of these big tech firms will do much more than chatter without a bigger incentive. United workers could provide that incentive.Workers at Google, Amazon, and Microsoft have provided a template for shifting the decision-making process of their corporate governance. Google employees have spoken out against Project Maven, Amazon employees against Rekognition (more than once), and now Microsoft employees are opposing a U.S. military project called JEDI.By writing and signing open letters, threatening to quit, and making demands, the highly valued technology workforce can flex its muscles and push big organizations to change. Google did not renew Project Maven and published a set of AI principles in line with the complaints levied by employees. On the other hand, Amazon continues to pitch its Rekognition software to government agencies such as ICE.Tech workers should now call on their companies to sever ties to Saudi Arabia. But if workers want to see holistic change and serious commitment to ethical behavior, they need to do more than single-issue ad hoc organizing. They need to form organizations that span more than a single company.The professionals of the software world need something akin to the Hippocratic oath. Companies seeking to deploy technology to less-than-ethical ends need to know it will be much harder to get anyone to build it. The first step, though, is for technology workers to think critically about the impact their work has had on society so far—especially close to home.As conditions in the U.S. (and worldwide) continue toward increased economic stratification, the need for an organized labor force grows. The technology community is partly to blame for this growing inequality, through automation of manual labor to the invention of the “gig economy,” which insulates tech companies like Uber from the drivers who actually deliver the service to customers. Same goes for AirBnB, TaskRabbit, and the myriad other technology firms that rely on the meat cloud of mechanical turks to enact their corporate machinations.By employing these workers as contractors, corporations avoid paying for benefits, avoid payroll taxes and liability, and generally shirk the responsibilities associated with employing workers. Not only that, but technology firms and technology workers are making decisions and designing software to exploit those workers. Susan Fowler, who famously exposed the darker underbelly of Uber, wrote a chilling piece for Vanity Fair, which included this unsettling paragraph:The technology workers I’ve met are generally disheartened—often devastated—by the state of things. Perhaps ironically, the relatively wealthy professionals also feel disempowered to do anything about it. The economy is too complex, the power structures too powerful, the market incentives too unchangeable. And it’s true; as individuals, technology workers are relatively powerless to force change. But as an organized group, they could be a juggernaut in the economics of not just California or the United States, but worldwide.I am hardly the first to suggest such collective action. The Tech Workers Coalition was formed with hopes to “redefine the relationship between tech workers and Bay Area communities … [t]hrough activism, civic engagement, direct action, and education.” Silicon Valley Rising is another organization that aims to, “[take] on occupational segregation and severe income inequality with a comprehensive campaign to raise wages, create affordable housing and build a tech economy that works for everyone.”Writers at the Atlantic and the New York Times have suggested that technology workers unionize. White-collar workers are typically reluctant to bite the hand that feeds them, but the status quo won’t last forever. Wired magazine predicts that between the rise of coding boot camps, internal training programs for coders, and an increasing number computer science graduates that coding could become a largely blue-collar job.Ben Tarnoff suggested in a piece for the Guardian that technology firms are counting on and encouraging a shift toward programming becoming a blue-collar profession. The shareholders at Uber, Google, and elsewhere don’t want to pay programming staff top professional salaries; they only have to because of the currently competitive climate. The titans of technology have invested significantly into training programs, school programs, and coding boot camps in order to create a bigger supply of programmers. Doing so decreases the unmet demand, and therefore the value, of programmers in general. Tarnoff concludes that “whether a coder or a carpenter, capital will do what it can to lower your wages, and enlist public institutions towards that end.”Sparks like the murder of Jamal Khashoggi or the selling-out of “core values” through military contracts need to find some tinder among the middle-class and upper-middle-class technology workforce and become a flame before it’s too late. The workers of the technology world need to use their power before capital can devalue them. Get a taste for collective action through letter-writing campaigns, but don’t let it stop there.For the good of the cities and communities where we work and where our work is deployed, the empowered among us should demand the entire staff be compensated with a living wage. Doing so could bring prosperity back to the general population, but the CEOs and executives won’t do it without pressure. If programmers wait too long to stand up, they might just join the huddled masses of the gig economy instead.I studied games a bit in college. I’m by no means an expert, but I have above average exposure to how games can be used to expose, teach, and influence our understanding of humanity and society.It’s with this experience that I was fascinated, terribly uncomfortable, and even a little upset after some friends brought out their Secret Hitler game at a recent cocktail party.I’d never heard of this game. When my wife and I arrived for game night, I figured I was in for some Yahtzee, or Apples to Apples — something benign like that. High on wine and cheese, I wasn’t expecting my evening to center on a game with grand political messages.As the rules were explained to me, my wine-and-cheese high came crashing down to zero. I felt like I was about to play a game that preached a lesson: If I’m not supporting a liberal agenda then, by default, I’m allowing fascism to rise.Gee, I wonder what current political administration and associated culture war this could be modeled after?As someone who is neither a liberal nor a fascist, and who knows better than to reduce society into A/B logic, I started to feel uncomfortable. Which is likely the point of the game.Secret Hitler is set up from the beginning to have a majority of liberals who try to work together to impose their will on a minority of their political rivals. Further asymmetry and satire are built in: The path of the fascist agenda is paved with crimes, each step along the way an escalation of evil. Things like:The liberal agenda, on the other hand, is blank. This is fitting given the current state of American liberalism, an ideology that essentially opposes everything while struggling to explain what it stands for.To get to the liberal utopia and win the game, all you have to do is unite in opposition to fascism by blindly swearing allegiance to an agenda of nothing. How very spot-on.All of the applause to the creators for this rock-and-a-hard-place conundrum they’ve designed. It’s a nice little moral dilemma, and one I’m familiar with since the 2016 election.The game made me feel very uncomfortable with the decisions it was forcing me into. (Again, I am certain that’s the point.) For example, when it was my turn to be president, luck of the draw forced my chancellor to play a fascist card. This required me to kill a player. I, however, did the only logical thing a person who understands the games behind the games could do.I killed myself.Some games you only win when you stop playing. (That was my most valuable lesson in all the game theory I studied back in college.)Games can be all about fun, but some are designed to show us to us. Secret Hitler is especially disturbing because this satirical game isn’t satire at all. It’s a sad and accurate representation of the current state of American politics.The goal is for players to swallow their pride and submit to blind liberalism, or else it’s their fault the next Hitler doesn’t get stopped. The game is an artifact of the us vs. them mentality, the idea that you’re either with us or against us. Don’t worry about what being “with us” means. The important part is that you support us, or else. It made me feel uncomfortable about my own political decisions, or lack thereof (I vote for candidates I believe in, not against candidates out of fear that something evil won’t be stopped).Honestly, I would have preferred Yahtzee, or to be sold on Amway, or some other timeshare-style bait and switch. I didn’t like Secret Hitler’s judgy tone.The tragic irony is that this fear-based culture of demanding blind adherence is exactly what is giving rise to fascist culture. Again, applause to the creators for designing such an expertly uncomfortable conundrum. Pure genius.We didn’t play a second round. Once was enough for me to get the point.There are few modern-day scientific innovations as profound as the gene-editing technology CRISPR, which allows scientists to precisely cut and alter the DNA of any cell. Scientists’ use of CRISPR has taken off, in part because it’s so much easier to use than earlier iterations of gene editing. Though CRISPR hasn’t cured disease or ended world hunger yet, it’s already being used in some amazing ways. We’ve rounded up seven of the most wild examples.For decades, scientists have considered the controversial idea that animals could provide a ready supply of organs to help ease the organ transplant shortage. More than 114,000 people are currently waiting to receive a transplant in the U.S., alone. Past attempts to implant animal organs into people have failed because the human body’s immune system rejects foreign tissue. (The first heart transplant ever performed in a human was in 1964, with a chimpanzee heart. The patient died within two hours.) Another barrier is the possibility that infections from animal donors could be transmitted to human recipients.One company, eGenesis, spun out of Harvard geneticist George Church’s lab, is using CRISPR to make pigs suitable organ donors for humans. Many pig organs, like the heart and lungs, are similar in size to human ones.Researchers at eGenesis have used CRISPR to snip out a family of viruses found in pig DNA that could be passed to people during transplantation. These viruses, known as porcine endogenous retroviruses, or PERVs, could jump from pigs to human cells and randomly integrate into the human genome. The company has produced dozens of virus-free pigs so far.The company is also using CRISPR to modify genes involved in the immune system and prevent the human body from rejecting the organs. A clinical trial of human transplants with organs produced in gene-edited pigs is, most likely, still years away.You’re probably not familiar with groundcherry, but Joyce Van Eck hopes the fruit will someday become a household name.About the size of a cherry tomato, the groundcherry is sweet with notes of pineapple and mango. It can grow in the U.S., but it’s currently uncommon because the plants sprawl wildly and are hard to control.Eck, an associate professor at Cornell University, and her collaborator Zachary Lippman at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, are using CRISPR to make the groundcherry more appealing to farmers. “We saw it as a novelty fruit that, with some improvement, could become a more specialty food crop in the U.S. and grow more widely,” Eck says.Eck and Lippman first targeted the groundcherry’s self-pruning gene to make the plant more compact as it grows. Eck says the change essentially fast-tracked the plant’s domestication and made the fruit develop earlier. Next, they used CRISPR to tweak the groundcherry’s genetics to make the fruit 25 percent bigger. They published their findings in October 2018, in the journal Nature Plants.Eck thinks CRISPR will be an important tool in domesticating new crops, increasing the nutritional value of food, and helping to protect crops from extreme weather and climate change. “We rely on just a handful of staple food crops, not just within the U.S. but in other countries,” she says. “I think it’s really important to find other crops in case of crop failure, but also as a way to diversify diets.”CRISPR is also being studied as a way to breed cacao trees to be resistant to diseases that are increasingly affecting chocolate production. And DuPont Pioneer, an agriculture company, has licensed CRISPR technology to breed a new and improved variety of waxy corn, which is used to thicken food products.Japanese scientists are using CRISPR to change the flower color of a traditional garden plant.Researchers programmed CRISPR to target a specific gene, known as DFR-B gene, in the Japanese morning glory. In the lab, they inserted the CRISPR system into plant embryos. The gene-editing tool successfully disrupted the DFR-B gene, which is responsible for the color of the plant’s stems, leaves, and flowers. By doing so, it changed the plant’s characteristic violet color to white.The researchers say their work, published last year, reveals the huge potential of CRISPR to the study and manipulation of genes in gardening plants.Last year, a scientist in Oregon made headlines when he reported that his team used CRISPR to snip out a heart disease-causing genetic error in dozens of human embryos. It was the first time CRISPR had been used in the U.S. to modify human embryos.Shoukhrat Mitalipov, who directs the Center for Embryonic Cell and Gene Therapy at Oregon Health and Science University, zeroed in on a mutation in a gene called MYBPC3 which is responsible for an inherited heart condition called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The condition occurs in about 1 in 500 people and can cause heart failure and sudden death.“Every generation on would carry this repair because we’ve removed the disease-causing gene variant from that family’s lineage,” Mitalipov said in a university statement.Editing cells in embryos is known as germline editing, and is controversial because the genetic changes that result can be passed on to subsequent generations. That’s different than somatic genome editing, which only affects the treated individual.Japan may soon move forward with similar research. The country has issued draft guidelines allowing human embryos to be modified with CRISPR and other genome-editing technologies. If adopted, “the guidelines would restrict the manipulation of human embryos for reproduction, although this would not be legally binding,” according to an October 2018 report in the journal Nature.But science is far from using CRISPR to make designer babies — at least in the U.S. That’s because a congressional rider forbids the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) from even considering any human trials that would involve modifying human embryos.In dogs with muscular dystrophy, a CRISPR gene-editing treatment appeared to fix the genetic mutation responsible for disease. The findings, reported in August 2018, represent a major step forward in developing a treatment for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, a devastating and life-shortening illness most common among young boys. It’s a genetic disease occurring in about 1 in 3,500 boys born, worldwide.Duchenne is caused by a mutation in the DMD gene, which makes dystrophin, an essential protein found in muscle cells. The mutation means the gene can’t make functioning dystrophin, and without it, muscles are weak and don’t work properly. Muscle loss in Duchenne is typically fatal, and men with the disorder usually only reach their early thirties.In an effort to stop the disease in its tracks, researchers at the University of Texas Southwestern injected CRISPR into one-month-old beagles. Gene editing was able to restore dystrophin in muscle and heart tissue in the dogs by up to 92 percent. Scientists have estimated that a 15 percent threshold would be needed to significantly help humans.“It is really impressive how well this works,” says Elizabeth McNally, director of the Center for Genetic Medicine at Northwestern University, who studies the genetics of muscular dystrophy. McNally wasn’t involved in the research, but serves on the board of Exonics, the company that funded the study. “You see this change where a small amount of DNA being corrected can result in a big protein change.”McNally says she wouldn’t be surprised if the approach moved to human trials in just a few years. “I think in many ways, Duchenne is really the poster child for doing this,” she says of gene editing.Injecting CRISPR directly into the body is risky, so for now, investigators are using CRISPR to edit human cells outside the body and then infusing them back into patients. The approach is being used in early clinical trials in the U.S., Europe, and China.In the U.S., a trial sponsored by the University of Pennsylvania and a company called Tmunity is recruiting up to 18 people with multiple myeloma, sarcoma, and melanoma who haven’t responded to traditional drugs, or have seen their cancer come back. Investigators will extract human immune cells from the men and women and use CRISPR to genetically alter them to attack cancer cells. The edited cells will then be infused back into the patients.Another company, CRISPR Therapeutics, is planning to use CRISPR to treat people with beta thalassemia and sickle cell disease, two related blood disorders that are caused by mutations in the same gene. These mutations affect a person’s ability to make hemoglobin, a vital protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. In a statement provided to Medium, the company said it started enrolling people with beta thalassemia into a clinical trial in Germany. Meanwhile, in the U.S., CRISPR Therapeutics and Vertex Pharmaceuticals are planning to launch a trial for sickle cell by the end of 2018.Both trials will extract bone marrow stem cells from people in the trial, edit the cells with CRISPR in the lab, and transfer them back into the patients. They hope that the process helps patients produce a type of hemoglobin.Researchers in China began their first round of similar experiments in people last year, but have yet to report any data from the 11 ongoing trials registered on clinicaltrials.gov.Eric Kmiec, director of the Gene Editing Institute at Christiana Care Health System in Delaware, says he’s not surprised that CRISPR has moved this quickly for very serious diseases. “I think people wanted this to happen because they realized it was the ultimate medicine,” he says. “Considering the desperation and lack of other treatments for some diseases, it’s encouraging.”Mosquito-borne diseases, especially malaria, are a deadly scourge. Globally, malaria kills more than 400,000 people every year. To cut down on the spread, some scientists propose using a controversial technology called a gene drive.A gene drive is a genetic engineering tool designed to spread certain genes throughout a species. Though it’s not a new idea, gene drives are closer to reality now thanks to CRISPR.In a paper published in September 2018, researchers at Imperial College London showed that a gene drive made with CRISPR could suppress a population of Anopheles gambiae — the type of mosquito that transmits malaria in Sub-Saharan Africa.Investigators used CRISPR to target alter a so-called doublesex gene, which is responsible for female development. When female mosquitoes inherited two copies of this modified gene, they couldn’t bite or lay eggs. Researchers tested the self-destructive mosquitoes in cages and found that, after eight generations, no normal females we left to reproduce and the population died out.Genes drives haven’t been released outside of laboratories yet. There’s the possibility that genetic alterations designed to crash populations could mutate and pass on an advantageous trait. But this study showed that the gene drive transmitted the genetic modification nearly 100 percent of the time, avoiding resistance.Leaders of the African Union earlier this year endorsed gene drive research in an effort to fight malaria in their countries, but it could still be years before the technology is tested in the wild.Two years ago on Halloween, I was staring down the final week of a punishing campaign cycle and anticipating a painful victory. I wrote a piece about how we were about to learn the wrong lessons from the 2016 Presidential election cycle. At the time, I was focused on the misinterpretation of the real and profound angst in the American electorate on both the Left and Right. Unfortunately, two years later, nearly everything I said still feels deeply true: Our leaders need to focus on progress over power and most citizens feel ignored by political parties more interested in point-scoring than leadership.Now I worry that we’re about to misinterpret the results of another election cycle, furthering (and perhaps accelerating) the downward spiral of our politics. What was missing then, and is still needed now, is a more explicit prescription for how we, as a country, begin to walk away from what seems like an inexorable downward slide and move toward a future in which we can reclaim our “only in America” story for everyone.Current conventional wisdom is focused on just how big the Blue Wave of 2018 is going to be. Will Democrats claim the Senate? The House? By how much? Who will be the new Speaker? These questions obscure the larger and more critical conversation we need to be having: how and why we have ended up with this level of dysfunction and violence in U.S. politics, and what needs to change — not just for the Democratic Party, but for the country.Having spent the last decade working in politics as a digital and technology leader in the Obama campaigns, I’ve been a co-conspirator in the Democratic Party’s digital revolution. But over the last few years, while I have tried to focus on how we rebuild the party itself, what I’ve witnessed is a party increasingly focused on more technology and better tactics as its principal answer to its disorganization and irrelevance. What I don’t see is a focus on the values, ideas, and other fundamental building blocks of citizen-centric leadership that are desperately needed in American civic life.As a consequence of urbanization and our ever-increasing focus on technology, Democrats have gradually lost the ability to articulate why we believe what we believe. And faced with conservative opposition whose convictions are deeply held (or at least forcefully argued), we increasingly lack confidence in our own ideas. When it comes to the most profound ideological arguments facing America, we have unilaterally disarmed for fear that we might not be persuasive. And we have replaced conviction and an eagerness for genuine debate with bumper-sticker policy and rage.As we’ve isolated ourselves in our moral superiority, we’ve become more and more dependent on technology as savior. But there is no app for this. Confidence is inspiring; dodging debates and banishing those with whom we disagree to ideological exile is not. Our self-righteousness is a fragile defense. It creates a smugness that makes conversations with people with whom we don’t agree almost impossible.This dynamic has only grown worse over the last two years. In the era of President Trump, we are continually baited into arguments we don’t want, and have settled into an unending battle we can’t and may not even want to win. But we are so consumed with beating him and his Republican accomplices that we have lost sight of our own values — the only thing that might save the Democratic Party.Since we mostly talk to other people who agree with us, we’ve become lazy. We assume our conclusions are obvious, and we skip the step where we win (or even explain) the argument in the first place. “Well, obviously health care is a basic human right, so let’s create a Medicare for All system.” This sounds perfectly reasonable — so long as you accept the basic premise that Americans actually deserve anything from their government, beyond life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. We assume the answer is obvious and fight about how to deliver on an argument we haven’t won. Instead of making the case for deserving people’s faith in our leadership — because we understand, care about, and are willing to ameliorate their pain — too much of Democratic rhetoric is focused on resistance and retribution.People are inspired by values, by the confidence of the deeply held “why.” The Democratic Party currently feels defined by “well, obviously” arguments — an utter certainty that anyone still asking fundamental questions “just doesn’t get it” and never will. Lost in the fog of how to win rather than how to lead, they are succeeding at neither. This focus on winning blinds them to two realities: one, Democrats are fighting the wrong fights — ones defined by self-centered, self-serving opponents who will always be better at being self-centered and self-serving; and two, because so much of the momentum is part of this downward spiral, winning the current battles means permanently undermining our institutions and people’s faith in our commitment to service.As we look ahead to next week’s midterms, many on the Left and within the Democratic Party are already assuming victory (at least in the House), and framing it as a validation of the “all anti-Trump, all the time” strategy of the last two years. And while there are numerous lessons to learn from both the successes and failures of the last cycle (here’s a good start), we have to be especially wary of how we interpret a would-be victory.Most of our post-mortem analysis will focus narrowly on the tactics behind the victories. But winning doesn’t mean we did everything right, losing doesn’t mean we did everything wrong, and wins are rarely tactical roadmaps for other wins. Each candidate and each campaign is unique. We can’t watch one candidate win by focusing on healthcare and conclude an all-healthcare-all-the-time message is the right answer everywhere. This cycle has seen new leaders emerge all over the country, often despite a lack of support from the party. It is this candidate model that we should be learning from and replicating: authenticity, a deeply personal narrative, a deep connection to the people of the district, and a stronger commitment to service than to personal ambition.The candidates who are creating a real connection with their communities — win or lose — are doing so not because they have mastered some new targeting tool or embraced some magical combination of bumper-sticker-friendly policy positions, but because they represent a missing leadership that we are desperate for. We want politics that feels rooted in our collective success, a vision rooted in real belief, and a hunger for power rooted not in self-interest but in public good. We must focus on cultivating this kind of leadership and rebuilding our faith in politics — not on winning the next election cycle.We live in a system of self-government. Politics should be about how we serve each other, about what we need for our families to thrive, and what we need from one another in order to live in safety and harmony. Right now, our politics feel mostly like a series of angry popularity contests and about assigning blame for why our country feels unbalanced, unproductive, and unhealthy. Our leaders come across as deeply self-centered, disconnected from the needs and concerns of the people they represent, beholden to monied interests, and consumed by a narcissism of power that focuses them on winning not serving. Every argument, every disagreement feels like an existential threat. And on both sides, the volume knob seems only to go in one direction — to the point that it has become impossible to hear anything at all. If we continue down this path, we’re going to lose our republic.So what we should learn from this cycle? Nothing.We cannot afford to continue looking backwards for wisdom. We live in a largely deterministic culture that sees the present as an inevitable product of the past. This way of living requires no faith; it breeds cynicism and contemptuously scoffs at vision in ways that undermine our imagination. What we need is a new way of being in the present — driven by a better, more ambitious future. We have to stop wading through post-mortem analyses, assuming we’ll find some right set of tactics, some new technical solution, some magical answer to how to win the current battle and begin to open our minds to new possibilities. Instead of shaping our focus around what tired polls may or may not tell us about a tired electorate that is alternately consumed and exasperated by the politics of politics, we must reignite our believe in our own redemption.When I say “our” I mean everyone’s, all 127 million American households — not just the ones I agree with. We need a serious discussion about the things we all need in order to live lives of purpose and significance, about creating a country in which everyone has a shot. And we must ensure that we share a foundation of access and resources with our neighbors so that this narrative — this “only in America” story — feels like something within reach for all of us.Win or lose, these are the things that the Democratic Party must embrace:The question Democrats need to answer for voters right now is why should anyone trust us with the power to lead the country? Power is not the point of politics. Power is borrowed. It is granted to leaders by the people they represent. But first, it has to be earned. Democrats can begin to earn this trust right now — win or lose. But if they treat winning next week as an opportunity for political retribution or immediately launch their next campaigns, they will only confirm people’s belief that they care more about having power than using it. The path forward is about relentlessly working toward a country where everyone’s “only in America” story feels possible, encouraged, empowered, and inevitable.This is a story: Germany has taken far more than its fair share of refugees. Recent data from Eurostat shows that the country is responsible for 60 percent of all accepted asylum applications in the European Union; in 2016 it took in far more refugees (433,905) than the United States, which only granted 84,989 asylum petitions in the same year.This is also a story: A report came out in the German newspaper Bild in 2016 that seemed to validate those who’d claimed that taking in refugees brought rape and crime. The paper reported that a “sex mob” of fifty or more “Arab” men ran rampant in Frankfurt on New Year’s Eve, sexually assaulting dozens of women and causing havoc.The first story is true, and the second is entirely false. But the second story went viral. As Newsweek’s Rossalyn Warren wrote, the story went global when it was aggregated by the far-right American news site Breitbart because it “played on some of Germany’s worst fears.” A police investigation soon found social media posts indicating that the original source of the story — a woman quoted by Bild only by her first name, Irina — wasn’t even in Frankfurt on the night in question.But that has not settled the argument. The Frankfurt rape mob story and others like it, such as this hoax about refugees allegedly setting fire to a church in Dortmund, continue to spread. In January 2018, Trump tweeted: “Crime in Germany is up 10% plus (officials do not want to report these crimes) since migrants were accepted. Others countries are even worse. Be smart America!” In fact, crime in Germany is down 10 percent and at its lowest level since 1992.Fact is the name we give to the type of story that is rooted in evidence of truth. But it has never been easier for a story to pretend to have the attributes of fact when it actually does not. Like a tiger’s stripes, stories have evolved to use the appearance of facts as a camouflage — and it has never been more difficult to tell one from the other.Human civilization is, in one sense, the sum of all of the stories we tell ourselves. Society is a vast and tangled collection of stories about manners, stories about morals, stories about democracy, stories about identity, and so on. This public commons is the Body Cultural; stories are its lifeblood.In the Frankfurt mob story, Germany’s policy on welcoming refugees meant that it became a target for people who subscribe to a certain set of stories that add up to a xenophobic, racist worldview. It became the subject of two competing stories. But the fact that the truth is known — there was no “sex mob” in Frankfurt on New Year’s eve, no attempted arson in Dortmund that night — doesn’t seem to matter to the question of which of the competing stories will emerge victorious.There is an old saying: a lie spreads around the world before the truth has even laced up its boots. The image of a New Year’s Eve “sex mob” of refugees did just that: it percolated through international debates around the resettlement of refugees. The story transmitted along new communication lines, on Facebook, on Twitter and it found an audience which was primed to integrate and promulgate stories that fit their right-wing narrative, stoking their fear, anger, and resentment. Despite being demonstrably untrue, it became powerful as any story.The Frankfurt “sex mob” story is just one example of a much wider phenomenon. Something has grown sick in the way we as a species process and disseminate information. Something is broken in the way we triage our stories or, perhaps, there is suddenly no longer a stage of the process in which a story can be triaged.Metaphors for information tend towards the biological. Ideas grow. They spread like viruses, or they take root like trees. This is not a coincidence: There is an observable similarity between the behavior of life, and the behavior of information.This led Richard Dawkins to propose that, just as the gene was the basic reproductive unit of biological life, there was an equivalent for informational life: the meme. Colloquially, we have come to think of a meme as a particular sort of visual internet content, but it is much more than that.Any idea that spreads is exercising memetic life. Nyan Cat is a meme, sure, but things like Christianity, Socialism, table manners, object permanence, and the book, War and Peace are memes, too. The foundational democratic idea of the intrinsic equality of mankind? That’s a meme. The feeling of threat from the sinister so-called other is a meme as well. Freedom, justice, and equality are memes, and so are racism, anti-Semitism, and homophobia. Our personality is the sum total of the memes and the stories that we have internalized over our lifetime.Any idea can take hold in the public consciousness, to the point where it becomes doctrinaire, simply if it is a powerful story. A gene survives if it contains the instructions for a life-form which is well-suited to survive and reproduce in its environment; a meme survives if it contains the instructions for a story which is similarly well-suited to survive and reproduce in its environment. That environment is the Body Cultural, the public commons of our collective minds and media, and reproduction there means compelling the attention and belief of individual humans.These stories range from the simple to the complex. Some experiences we feel as having an innate power because they conform to one of the narratives that are core to the instincts we evolved. As children, we are told stories of monsters in the dark in order to stop us from wandering too far from the firelight, because that was how to make sure we stay safe.A David and Goliath underdog story or a last-minute Hail Mary comeback — these are all examples of powerful narrative archetypes, well-suited to survive and reproduce in the public commons of stories. These are foundational stories, simple, and monolithic. More complex stories are more complex narrative organisms; multicellular memetic life. Conspiracy theories are at their most potent when they tap into a core narrative archetype, that of fear of a sinister, behind-the-scenes coterie controlling our lives. But nations and religions are also both types of stories; stories that have evolved over centuries, even millennia, of being told and retold.America is, at its heart, one such story. The country is built on the power of its own idea, a primal defining narrative. That story is itself composed of other stories, of individual aspiration and self-improvement, that add up to a sense of national uniqueness and historic destiny.Core to democracy is the idea — the story — that all humans “are created equal,” as the Declaration of Independence put it. Conversely, core to totalitarianism is the opposite story, one which promotes the dehumanization of the other, the inculcation of hate towards those different from the in-group.In the early days of the human race, our power to circulate such stories was limited. We developed language, but could only tell our stories individually, on a peer-to-peer basis; foundational myths that formed the basis of things like nations were encoded into lyrical ballads. Bards toured and performed these stories as narrative poems.Later, with the invention of writing, those stories could be archived and their structures built upon. Religions standardized their dogma; nations anchored their mythos in histories and founded universities where scholars began to collate the first encyclopedia. The stories that made up our narrative worldview were controlled by gatekeepers: the church, the state, and the press.The printing press allowed for the development of narratives that were an order of magnitude more complex than the environment could previously support and hard on the heels of its invention, came the scientific revolution and the enlightenment. There is a reason that the Nazis burned books: In order for totalitarianism to take hold, first the potential for the natural evolution of ideas within the Body Cultural needed to be cut off.And then came the internet.Information operates on Darwinian principles. Those ideas best fitted to their environment survive, spread, and evolve. Those which are not, die out. Except for the narrative power of the idea of truth — itself a type of story — there is not much that favors truth over lies in the process of memetic natural selection.Silicon Valley provides us with a good example of the power of a compelling narrative: Elizabeth Holmes and her company Theranos. Holmes claimed that she had developed a revolutionary new technique for running blood tests that would need only a finger prick, not a full draw of blood from a vein. It would later turn out, after some fearless and clear-sighted investigative reporting by the Wall Street Journal’s John Carreyrou, that it was all smoke and mirrors.But before that could happen, Holmes was able to leverage the power of her own personal narrative — that of an heroic visionary founder in the mold of Steve Jobs — to raise stunning amounts of money from investors. It was to the point where her company became a unicorn, the name given in the Valley to companies worth more than a billion dollars. She was even able to tempt luminaries like Henry Kissinger and George Shultz to join her board of directors.With each progressive milestone, the narrative powering Holmes’ rise got stronger. When her downfall finally came, it was because it finally came up against an even more powerful narrative archetype: the Icarus story of hubris and comeuppance. But in Silicon Valley, the recurring myth of the lone genius founder persists.Those stories can become more powerful than reality itself. If we are given information that does not fit with the stories we have integrated into our worldview, our instinct is to reject it despite all proof — because ultimately, as far as human understanding goes, proof is just another type of story.The internet has sent this phenomenon into overdrive. Before everyone was potentially connected directly to everyone, the information ecosystem revolved around the library and the archive. There were high bars to publishing a work, and when it was published, it was a permanent and immutable part of the Body Cultural.The importance of that ecosystem cannot be understated: record keeping was a key part of all pre-printing press societies; for an idea to spread it needed to be so powerful as to dominate, despite the inefficient systems of codification.But in the age of the internet, there is now such a colossal amount of information being produced, often with little to no editorial control or judgement involved in the process, that the Body Cultural risks becoming overwhelmed. This is perhaps why this has been called a “post-truth” age: there is no longer any reliable way to tell which stories will be helpful to us and which will harm us if we incorporate them into our individual narrative understanding.The power of the human narrative instinct was perfectly observed by the satirist and author Terry Pratchett, who described a substance called “narrativium” as one of the fundamental elements of Discworld, his magical fantasy universe. It is a particularly brilliant premise which gives the human instinct towards stories the form of a literal force: narrative gravity.The point Pratchett understood perfectly is this: humans can only understand the universe by way of stories. To construct narratives out of life’s chaos of facts is the most basic of human instincts, because it is only by imposing narrative order in this way that we can begin to comprehend the world around us.When we engage with that world, it is always as a part of that fundamental narrative framework; and as our informational infrastructure has increased in complexity, so has our ability to process and spread those stories.But what happens if that process becomes so complex as to no longer be under our control? How does a bad idea form? What is its genesis? How did it grow, spread, take root, and reproduce in an age where the growth of information was limited by the written word or the printed page? In an age where the internet forces us into ideological silos of reality, how can truth compete with lies?Take the recurrent societal story of “national economy as home economy.” During the tenure of prime minister David Cameron, the British government instigated a policy of “austerity.” This was sold to the public, loosely, using a simple and compelling idea: that the national debt being high was just like being in debt as a household, as if bailiffs were going to come to the U.K. and start confiscating national monuments.Of course, national debt is completely different from individual debt. The difference is that when the U.K. government borrows money to spend on domestic welfare and other programs, the money gives an injection of liquidity into the economy. But the narrative had a compelling power all of its own.National economy as home economy was a rhetorical trick to force the politics of the right, which believes in a more limited government welfare state than the left does, onto a public that does not fully grasp its intention. In the U.K. case, austerity politics caused a contraction of the economy, forcing the government to actually borrow more.Republicans in the U.S. have long used similar arguments to push for cuts to welfare programs; the fact that they don’t really care about reducing national debt was made stunningly clear after Trump and Paul Ryan passed the 2017 tax plan, which cut taxes on America’s wealthiest and in doing so blew a smoking great hole in the federal budget. So much for the party of fiscal responsibility.It is demonstrably untrue, but the simplicity of the story — that being in debt as a nation is the same as being in debt as an individual or household — meant that it has spread more easily from person to person than the complex, more difficult to understand, truth.The way that a bad idea can cascade through society in the age of the internet should deeply concern us all. But it is such a core part of human nature — Pratchett’s narrativium is a fundamental human element — that it is rarely considered directly. As the social media age progresses, however, we’re going to have to grapple with the fact that the structure of the environment in which our fundamental narratives are born and grow has changed.In the biological world, unchecked and uncontrolled cell growth, caused by a damaged gene, is called a cancer. There is no equivalent word for when a bad idea or damaged meme cascades through society, but they often have. Communism — the idea of “from each according to his ability and to each according to his need” — metastasized into totalitarianism under Stalin. That this was out-evolved, eventually, by a collection of oppositionary ideas centered around freedom and democracy (and capitalism) is our great fortune as a society.The Darwinian environment of the world of ideas has so far worked largely in our favor in that, on balance, so far, in history the good guys have mostly, and often only after great sorrow, won in the end. The narrative arc of the moral universe, to borrow from Martin Luther King Jr., may have been long, but it bent toward justice. In the age before the internet, lying carried an opportunity cost, because being caught in a lie was a powerfully damaging narrative.That’s not to say that the true or good story always won. Politics is fundamentally based around the art and artifice of the crafting and broadcasting of stories which incentivizes the twisting and harnessing of narrative as a mechanism for taking and holding power. This goes all the way back to whoever first thought of protecting their monarchy from revolution by inventing and perpetuating the idea of the divine right of kings to rule.One of the core narratives that make up the story we call America is “American exceptionalism.” Politicians on the left and right all strive to harness this idea: “this is the greatest country on earth” is a common refrain on the campaign trail. In fact, many, if not most, nations on earth have incorporated some variation of this kind of idea of manifest destiny into their national narrative DNA. It is useful as a trait which inculcates a sense of belonging. But if it is allowed to escalate unchecked it can also be dangerous, because it prevents any incentive to improve as a nation toward a global good. That is the flaw of all nationalism.But in the age of the internet, nationalism — and especially ethnonationalism — is on the rise again.At the core of Donald Trump’s message during the 2016 campaign, and on through his presidency, was a story. It is related to the manifest destiny narrative, but with the added hybrid of a primal story of nostalgia, too. His campaign slogan, “Make America Great Again,” encapsulated this story perfectly, and the campaign was powered by it. The innate feeling that life has not lived up to its promise — an inchoate feeling of unease perhaps even partly caused by the chaos of competing narratives — was harnessed by the evolving story. It found structure and form in Trump and Trumpism.At the same time, the story Trump told us all about himself — that he was a self-made man — turned out to be entirely fictional. A bombshell New York Times story from October showed that he actually got his money from his father by a process of gargantuan tax fraud, meaning he effectively stole half a billion dollars from the U.S. treasury. But for the political right, the truth doesn’t fit with the story, so it was rejected.Like when a transplant patient’s body rejects the new organ, a group of people in thrall to a particular underlying narrative simply refuse to register facts if they don’t fit the story. This is confirmation bias: the fact that when you’re inside one of these sectioned off areas — known as filter bubbles — where the stories are cherry-picked to include only those which confirm the preconceived and preconstructed worldview.This has always been a part of the human experience. But it, too, has been greatly exacerbated by the internet. Especially by social media structures like Facebook, which not only use algorithms to try to show people only content that it thinks they want to see (which greatly strengthens the effect of the filter bubble) but also by visually standardizing every story, so that an investigation by the New York Times looks the same as a post from a conspiracy nut about chemtrails or the Illuminati putting fluoride in the water.It is interesting to note that Facebook itself had a deeply flawed underlying story, encapsulated in the company’s original slogan, “move fast and break things.” The seductiveness of the “better to ask for forgiveness than permission” approach made it endemic to tech culture after Facebook’s success, and has led to endless and horrifying real-world repercussions.Framing a story in terms of biological life is a useful story in and of itself. It helps explain how ideas can seem to spread of their own accord. When an idea grows, it doesn’t matter whether one of the human nodes in the network of minds across which it spreads knows themselves to be lying or believes themselves to be telling the truth. This is itself a story, a metaphor designed to help understand the spread of ideas across a network. And the point is that while it is still composed of individual humans, the structure of that network — of the Body Cultural — has drastically changed.What that might mean for the future of mankind is still uncertain. Our story is still being told.When Galileo first placed his eye to the cold metal of his telescope, he had no idea of the significance of the worlds he would discover: In a divinely orchestrated ballet, four points of light moved around the planet Jupiter. The discovery of Jupiter’s four moons meant that celestial bodies don’t solely revolve around Earth. It provided further support for the proposal that Earth was not — as many believed — the center of our universe. The discovery was so disturbing to the Christian church that Galileo was subjected to an inquisition and forced to spend the rest of his life under house arrest.More than four centuries have passed since 1610, when Galileo first spotted the four moons, and our understanding of the cosmos is unprecedented by comparison. Today, NASA’s Kepler spacecraft has discovered nearly 4,000 planets orbiting around other stars. After almost 60 years of exploring — including up-close imagery by multiple spacecrafts — we now know there is water throughout the solar system. And where there is water, so might there be life.It’s easy to imagine that a discovery of life in another world might cause an uproar among people of faith. Did God also create that life? What does it mean if the organism is not carbon-based like we are?“This idea, that we are the main thing going on and everything revolves around us, has shaped a lot of attitudes in the monotheistic religions,” says Dr. Richard Mouw, an evangelical Christian and theologian at Fuller Seminary in Pasadena, Calif. Mouw is one of three religious leaders I spoke to for this column.“The idea of life on other worlds or other planets would simply be affirmation of what Christians and Jews have always believed,” says Mouw, arguing that panic over extraterrestrial life is unwarranted. “He (God) created galaxies and all the rest of it—none of that should be shocking to us.”Cosmic Pluralism—the belief that many worlds, planets, moons, and even the sun could contain life—is a centuries-old philosophical belief that appeared heavily in Islam in the medieval era. The belief system is still relevant in modern Islam, says Dr. Muzammil Siddiqi, an Imam and director of the Islamic Society of Orange County. “I personally don’t see any problem with life finding life on other words,” he says. “In Islam, the belief is that God created the whole universe and has taken care of everything, and every being that might exist.”Rabbi Elliot Dorff, a professor of philosophy at the American Jewish University, says Judaism also agrees with this concept. “The appreciation of God should be even greater given that we are now finding other planets, let alone all the other galaxies,” he says. “If there happens to be life on one of those other planets, then it would simply affirm God’s role in creating the universe.”Scripture from Islam, Judaism, and Christianity say similar things about the beginning of our planet: God created the heavens and Earth in six days. And while this interpretation varies depending on the faith, all three scholars I spoke to believe this timeline is meant to serve as a metaphor. These are not human days that last 24 hours, but divine days that can range from 1,000 human days to millennia. Interpreting the texts non-literally allows room for the expansion of the universe, the birth and death of stars, planetary formation, and evolution on Earth; it also makes room for life to exist on another planetary body.Intelligent life, however, might pose a different issue altogether.“I think the idea of intelligent life is the real challenge because we consider ourselves fallen human beings,” says Mouw. “Jesus came to save the human beings, but what about creatures on other planets?”Dr. Siddiqi says Islam finds no issue with intelligent life existing anywhere in the universe, except in human form. “Human beings are on Earth, and God created human beings for Earth,” he says. “So nobody [believes] that there are human beings on other planets, but other creatures or bacterial life, yes.” The Quran specifically states that humans are designed as we exist now, and created solely for Earth, says Dr. Siddiqi. This is why, he says, many Muslim people don’t accept evolution. Intelligent life, generally, could very well exist in Islam: “We know very little of the creation of God, but there is a vast kingdom,” says Siddiqi.Rabbi Elliot says that if we are ever contacted, “I think it would expand our appreciation of God’s universe.”When 84 percent of the world’s population believes in God and subscribes to a religious belief, it’s important to anticipate what people’s reactions to extraterrestrial life might look like. NASA has taken this question seriously. In 2016 the agency awarded a million dollar grant to the Center for Theological Inquiry in Princeton, N.J. Several theologians were tasked with thinking about how finding life could affect the ways that a majority of believers, particularly Christians, will think about God. The announcement of the grant caused controversy, with critics fearing that NASA was siding with Christian beliefs and not taking into account other faiths’ views. (NASA and the Center of Theological Inquiry did not respond to my requests for an update.)Science and religion are two parties that need to be talking, says Dr. Mouw. “We ought to be thinking about how to educate people of faith for the very real possibility that we will discover life,” he says. “We need to do the spiritual and theological and scientific education of the faith communities to get ready for that. Otherwise we’re going to end up with very vocal people in our community who are either in denial or feel somehow that their faith has been deeply threatened. Both of those are the wrong responses.”All three major faiths have scripture to back up the possible discovery of life, intelligent or not. Maybe the secular world will have more to contend with if evidence of life is ever discovered. Or, perhaps such a discovery will answer some of humanity’s biggest questions. After all, who among us has not wondered whether we are alone in the universe?Carl Sagan once wrote that “science is not only compatible with spirituality; it is a profound source of spirituality.” While answers remain unknown, Dr. Mouw agrees with Sagan that there is much that science and faith share. “We should not pit ourselves against the Carl Sagans of the world,” he says. “Instead, we ought to take delight in the fact that even if we disagree about the ultimate nature of reality, we share this profound sense of mystery and awe of the cosmos in which we find ourselves.”Breakups suck. There’s just no getting around it.That said, I’ve formed a hypothesis that I believe can help people avoid making bad decisions, post-breakup. My theory is based on personal experiences and dozens of discussions with my friends, family, and even perfect strangers — in other words, this is my personal opinion and not a research paper (at least, not yet). What I do know is that it’s proven true for me and many people I know — and hopefully it’ll work for you, too.It’s called the three-week rule.The rule was prompted by the end of my four-year relationship. Despite the fact that I had initiated the separation and knew it was for the best, it was hard. Actually, hard is an understatement. I constantly felt like my stomach was in one big knot. Half of the time, I wanted to throw up. It was difficult to breathe, I didn’t have much of an appetite, and my emotions were all over the place. Routines like going to the gym and even getting out of bed took 50 times the effort they normally did. My mind was constantly racing, I had a hard time focusing on school and at work, and I felt anxious all the time.I lived with these symptoms for exactly three gut-wrenching weeks. Some days were better than others, but overall there were 21 days of “blegh.” Here’s where it gets interesting: when I woke up on Day 22, the symptoms were simply… gone. Gone! I felt like my normal self again. I had a spring in my step, my mind was clear, and I had a productive day at work. I didn’t have to reread each page of my textbook in order to understand it, I didn’t overthink, I wasn’t jittery or anxious — I even wanted to go to the gym. What strange spell had come over me!?It’s worth mentioning that apart from the passing of Day 21 into Day 22, nothing significant had occurred or changed. My circumstances were exactly the same as the day before, and frankly, some were less than ideal:Feeling such a dramatic difference in my overall self, but with no concrete event to credit for the transformation, I looked to my calendar and journals for clues. Finding that exactly three weeks and one day had passed since my crossing back into singlehood put a “huh” smirk on my face. It was then that I started thinking back to my previous relationships and breakups. I dug pretty deep; I even looked back to old chats with friends from years prior to remember what happened on which day, and to recall what I was feeling and doing on those dates. Lo and behold, I found that history was repeating itself: three weeks of misery, followed by a similar transformation.I immediately told my best friend that I basically invented the lightbulb of breakup advice. “I swear, this is a thing! If people knew that the worst breakup symptoms only last three weeks, it would make them much easier to deal with!” I exclaimed.My friends mostly laughed off my grand discovery, although they couldn’t help but admit that I did seem to be much happier; they were relieved to have “their chipper Hest” back. Still, I couldn’t stop thinking about this three-week coincidence. I continued telling anyone I could about my theory. I was convinced it could be helpful — and for a few individuals, it was.A year and a half of thought, discussion, and deliberation later, I believe my three-week rule rings true more often than not.Now, I know what you’re thinking:Depends on what kind of relationship you had.Depends on whether you still love the person.Depends on whether you were the one who was dumped.Nope, nope, nope, and nope. Because here’s the thing: this isn’t psychological. It’s chemical.Here’s a vital disclaimer. I am not nearly suggesting that you will forget about, fall out of love with, stop caring about, stop thinking about, or completely get over the person you broke up with. These are much more complicated feelings and emotions and are highly dependent on each individual situation.What I’m talking about are the intense withdrawal symptoms that we experience after we are “cut off” from our drug of choice — love. Study upon study indicates that romantic love causes a similar reaction in the brain as addictive drugs do. It stands to reason that we should expect to experience withdrawal symptoms after being deprived of our love dosage, but it also means there is a real, biological switch that flips when the drug finally leaves our system.Here’s the catch: the withdrawal effect is real, and your whole body, mind, and soul will be begging you to relapse. You can read all the self-help books in the world, you can have plenty of support from loved ones, and you can meditate five hours a day — but during those first three weeks, you’re still “detoxing.” You have to steel your mind against going back for any kind of “hit” from your former relationship, as innocent as it might seem, or as mentally strong and capable as you think you are.When addicts experience withdrawal, the only thing they want is another hit, despite knowing it’s the last thing they need. It’s likely that they need friends, family, or even professionals around to keep them from getting another dose. They can’t trust themselves and their thoughts; they can only focus on what will make them feel better in the moment, not in the long-term. Sound familiar? It doesn’t take a substance abuse problem to relate; you just need to have been through a breakup.And like any addict in those early days of detox, you need to realize that any romantic decision you make within three weeks of your breakup is not to be trusted. You’ve still got it in your system. If you want to reach out to your former lover, to figure out whether you did the right thing or whether you should be fighting for them, wait until the 22-day mark to act. Each time you disrupt the detox process, you are relapsing. The clock starts over, and a three-week recovery period can easily turn into three months (or even years).Given the old adage “time heals all wounds,” I know this might not sound totally ground-breaking. However, being aware of and expecting the chemical changes in our bodies, and having a solid “feel better” date to count down to, could help us avoid some of the anxiety, insecurity, and even panic we may feel when love ends. At the very least, this rule can stop us from thinking we need to quit our jobs and move to an ashram to feel better. Instead, we just need to hold tight — and be kind to ourselves in the meantime. You’re not wrong or weak for feeling the way that you feel, and you don’t need to turn your life upside-down to fix it. It’s just biology, and it will pass.Every era has the drugs that define it. The Victorians embraced opium for relaxation and cocaine-infused wine for pep. Post-Second World War businessmen had Martini lunches, their disaffected housewives had Valium; both indulged in amphetamine-laced pills. Today, Adderall provides the same focus and confidence of yesterday’s stimulants, while opioid pharmaceuticals fill our bathroom cabinets.There are countless reasons people take drugs. To wake up. To fall asleep. To concentrate. To dissociate. To numb pain. To enhance pleasure. But the need that psychedelics meet is hard to pinpoint. Is it to commune with others? Connect with a higher power? Delve deep inside? All of the above?Whatever the reason, LSD has become inextricably connected to the zeitgeist of the sixties as the first psychedelic to attain popularity in western civilization. Devotees felt it allowed them to understand the world in a completely new way. It didn’t just make you feel good, it made everything glow with significance. As LSD’s inventor Albert Hofman put it: “I felt that I saw the world as it really was.”If we were to look for a drug that defined our culture today, it may very well be N,N-Dimethyltryptamine, or DMT. First synthesized by chemist Richard Manske in 1931, its psychoactive effects were discovered in 1956 by psychiatrist Stephen Szára who identified DMT as the active ingredient in snuffs used in South American religious ceremonies. Yet, even as LSD skimmed the mainstream in the psychedelic sixties, DMT was only used recreationally by the most adventurous drug enthusiasts.“DMT is a bit of the ‘new kid on the block’ right now, despite having been around for so long,” says psychiatrist Professor Adam Winstock of University College London, founder of the Global Drug Survey, which annually captures trends in recreational drug use based on anonymous information from over 100,000 people worldwide.In 2014, Prof Winstock published the first study ever on DMT use, finding that almost 9 percent of survey respondents had used DMT, and 5 percent had used it in the past year. Of those who had tried it, 24 percent reported it was the most recent new drug they had tried — far higher than other psychedelics and twice the number who’d tried LSD for the first time.“It offers something different than other psychedelics,” says Prof Winstock. “It has a totally different effect profile compared to LSD or mushrooms. It has a quick onset, short action, and is super intense and very weird — often in a good way.”Fans report visions of angels, visits from long-lost loved ones, romps with aliens, adventures with elves or simply feelings of inner peace, complete ego loss, and oneness with the universe. If LSD opens the doors of perception, DMT blows them off their hinges. And while an LSD trip lasts six to eight hours, the journey into DMT space lasts just fifteen intense minutes.DMT is also the active component in ayahuasca, the now fashionable traditional Amazonian brew that combines a DMT-containing plant (usually chacruna, or Psychotria viridis) with the vine Banisteriopsis caapi. The latter is crucial because it contains monoamine oxidase inhibitors — chemicals which prevent DMT being broken down naturally by the body’s enzymes and so allow DMT to take effect for several hours.It’s estimated that every weekend at least 100 ayahuasca ritual gatherings take place in Manhattan alone. And though smoking DMT raw might seem insurmountably intimidating, 92 percent of respondents in the Global Drug Survey who had tried DMT had done just that — largely thanks to the rise in vape pens.“I did a book signing at a Shpongle gig recently, and there was a stronger smell of DMT coming from the dance floor than marijuana,” laughs Dr. Rick Strassman, Clinical Associate Professor of Psychiatry at the University of New Mexico School of Medicine, who made DMT famous with his book The Spirit Molecule in 2000 and a documentary of the same title a decade later.“On the street, it’s still a bit of a niche drug — but it’s definitely being used a little more casually than one would wish. Probably twice a year, I get an email from a parent with a subject line that reads, ‘My Son and Your Book’, and I shudder — because inevitably the email describes a kid who smoked more and more of it, convinced they had broken the code to reality.”DMT was around in the sixties but just wasn’t popular, says Erik Davis, author, journalist and host of the podcast Expanding Mind. You’ll find reports of the Merry Pranksters taking DMT in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test (1968), so it was available to those in the know. “Leary tried it, Kesey tried it, the Grateful Dead tried it — but most people just didn’t like it,” says Davis. Legendary drug enthusiast Hunter S. Thompson went so far as to despise it, declaring “One whiff of that shit would turn you into something out of a goddamn medical encyclopedia!”In the seventies, DMT use was rare, but it became known as the “businessman’s coffee break” because it allowed suits to escape to another world for fifteen minutes and return to their desks with a clear head. Its reputation began to shift in the eighties when famed psychonaut Terence McKenna started evangelizing about it, pronouncing: “Can you die from taking DMT? Only if you can die of astonishment!”Research into psychedelics and humans was stopped when LSD possession was made illegal in the U.S. in October 1968. By the time Strassman began studying DMT in 1990, he was the first scientist in 32 years allowed to research the psychological effects of psychedelics — and though it’s often said that other people’s drug experiences can be boring, Strassman’s records of adventures with wise aliens, machine elves, and benevolent spirits have proved enticing for many.His work introduced a much wider audience to DMT, and his experiments with healthy human subjects laid to rest fears the drug could cause permanent insanity. The books PiHKAL: A Chemical Love Story (1991) and TiHKAL: The Continuation (1999) by legendary chemist Alexander Shulgin (the man who gave us MDMA) taught more people about the drug’s effects — as well as how to make it.“DMT became a symbol of not just psychedelic possibility but also sci-fi possibilities,” says Davis. “There is something ‘techy’ about the experience for many people: virtual realities, information density, interdimensional wormholes. Today, the material is far more available, and now stock brokers and corporate heads of HR are taking it.”DMT is certainly having its moment in the sun. While jazz musicians in the fifties were known to say “ain’t got no funk if you ain’t got no junk”, today Flying Lotus — grand-nephew of jazz pianist Alice Coltrane who was married to John Coltrane — implores audiences to chant “Deeee Emmmm TEEEEE!!!!” in accompaniment to a track simply titled “DMT Song.”PhD candidate Christopher Timmermann of Imperial College in London thinks the popularity of DMT says something powerful about the times in which we live. “Because DMT gives you the full sense of emerging into an alternate reality, it is in a way resonant with the ‘spirit of the age’ — the need to escape our current situation,” he says.In August of 2018, his study in the journal Frontiers in Psychology documented what DMT trips share in common with “near death experiences”. After injecting people with DMT and examining their brains with MRI scanners, his subjects consistently reported experiences as being “realer than real”, described “oceanic feelings” and “feelings of peace.” Most curiously, several described “entity experiences” where they felt connected to a sentient being like an angel, or an alien.“DMT is not addictive in the traditional sense — but people can fall in love with that vision of an alternate reality,” he says. “They seem more tangible than everyday reality, which can feel more uncertain than ever right now. I honestly think the drug’s rise might have to do with a crisis of meaning.”Retired pharmacologist Professor David Nichols — who in 1993 established the Heffter Research Institute to explore how psilocybin could help treat anxiety, addiction, and depression — agrees. “There is a truth in that people are bereft of spiritual connection and ritual right now — humans have a basic need to feel that their life has some meaning,” he says. And in a world where the church has less and less influence, a chemical that fills that vacuum has enormous appeal.DMT has also intrigued its devotees because it is the only endogenous psychedelic — one produced by the human body itself in a tiny, solitary organ above the roof of the mouth called the pineal gland. This organ has long fascinated scientists and philosophers. Ancient Egyptians called it “the eye of Horus,” while Descartes termed it “the seat of the soul.” It has been speculated that DMT is the chemical released in the last moments of life that can produce otherworldly experiences.Nichols says there is no evidence for this. His recent paper explained that the main function of the pineal gland is, perhaps disappointingly, to regulate our sleep and wake cycles by producing 30 micrograms of melatonin each day. It is physiologically impossible for this organ, weighing just 0.2 grams, to produce DMT in the quantities required to produce the visions inhaled when raw chemicals are smoked with a crack pipe.It is, Nichols believes, an irrelevant waste product naturally produced by the body’s daily chemical assembly lines. “If DMT wasn’t a psychedelic in high quantities, nobody would care about it. In the body, it probably is just an innocuous by-product.”All drugs defined as “psychedelic” — psilocybin, LSD, 2C-B, peyote — are united by euphoria, insights, and distortions to space and time. But while mushrooms and acid are often embraced as a collective activity best enjoyed with other wide-eyed friends, DMT is a solitary adventure. It transports you into a world that belongs to you alone.When LSD use soared in the sixties, it was an era where people were coming together to challenge authority and the Vietnam War. LSD struck a chord perhaps because it enhances the extent one feels in tune with others.So what of DMT? It’s tempting to speculate that in a world where we spend most of our waking moments in what anthropologist David Graeber calls “bullshit jobs” (data entry, telemarketing, “leadership professionals”, and the like), a drug that creates a better and more truthful version of the world could be more alluring than ever. It’s also tempting to wonder if a generation of twentysomethings glued to their phones might be more inclined toward a drug that offers a solitary experience.The world is a mess. The polar ice caps are melting and California is on fire, yet the wheels of consumer-driven capitalism keep turning. Coral reefs and rainforests are dying, and the richest people on earth talk about relocating to Mars. And Donald Trump is President.Perhaps the question isn’t why would young people want to escape from the terrifying surrealism of our current situation — but why wouldn’t they.A robotic, life-size Michael Myers stands near the entrance of National City’s Spirit Halloween, awkwardly rotating its torso and stabbing air. The theme song from Halloween bleeds out from some hidden speaker — tinny and forever repeating. Children keep running up and activating Michael’s motion, immune to the maddening repetition of it. I have to walk away, but it’s impossible to go anywhere in the place without hearing John Carpenter’s iconic score. After a while, it really does make my skin crawl.I’m not at this Spirit Halloween Store to purchase spooky decor, or Skeleboner, what I can only assume is this year’s hottest item: a skeleton costume with an inflatable dick.Rather, I’m looking for evidence.Soon I find what I’m looking for: graphics of Hollywood Video logos — wrapped with flowing film strips — are printed onto the carpet. I try to think back to when Hollywood Video was still a company. I have a vague memory of being 20 years old and opening an account at a Hollywood Video just so I could rent Maniac Cop. When I gawked at the price of the rental — maybe $6 — the store clerk was quick to remind me that Hollywood Video was a “cinema library,” which I guess was their way of distinguishing themselves from Blockbuster Video.That was 2004, and although that was the last time I stepped into a Hollywood Video, the chain officially shuttered in 2010.Which means this National City Spirit Halloween Store occupies a building that has been… [Scooby Doo realization voice] a-a-a-abandoned for at least eight years!I take a couple photos of the carpet, careful not to touch it. The brown stains could be water or blood. It feels a little like I’m taking pics of a dead body at a crime scene. The Halloween song trickles over the sinister sounds of gleeful children and by now my unease is real. It’s not the song, nor the children, nor the jerky robot movements affecting me per se, but the culmination of experiencing it all at once in such a damned place — much like playing with a Ouija board in a cemetery.It’s a thrilling feeling, that unease. Ideal for the Halloween season. Spirit Halloween Stores are masters at peddling scares, but their real (and probably inadvertent) beauty comes from reanimating the dead, exorcising demons, and creating real goddamn haunts. Because what else do you call a transitory inhabitation apart from a haunting?Horror nerds are always quick to point out the difference between a ghost and a poltergeist. Ghosts inhabit, they haunt, but they do not disrupt. Poltergeists, on the other hand, break stuff. They cause harm. They fuck shit up. And when a brain is wired toward horror, it’s easy to see the allegories in society, especially when it comes to land use.In San Diego — as in in most major cities — gentrification creeps through the city like an oozing poltergeist. This malevolent force is not grasping for Carol Ann, but upending neighborhoods, changing their identities, and pricing out the residents. San Diego is already the fifth most expensive city to buy a home and increasing at a rate that outpaces the nation. Just few exits north of National City Spirit Halloween, the neighborhood of Barrio Logan has felt the effects of rapid gentrification, which came to a head last year when a wealthy, white savior-type woman attempted to open a high-end “modern fruteria” in the historically Chicano neighborhood. Her tone-deaf idea was ridiculed so mercilessly that she withdrew her plans, but the incident laid bare a community’s frustration over gentrification ravaging their neighborhood.Fucking poltergeists, man. Always trying to sell us some expensive-ass fruit.But Spirit Halloween Stores are a different breed of ghost. Although they share some characteristics with gentrifying poltergeists, Spirits don’t really change the structure or identity of a neighborhood. Even if they are guilty of selling overpriced frivolity to a community that doesn’t need it (those Skeleboner costumes run a whopping $40, by the way), Spirits are not ushering in fundamental change in a community, or outpricing the residents. And because they tend to occupy defunct business spaces, they’re arguably responsible for revitalization (or reactivation, at least) without gentrification.It may be a leap to believe that Spirit Halloween Stores are ideal models for responsible land use, but blind faith has historically been been applied to less rational notions. Like ghosts, for instance.Around the end of August every year, Spencer’s Gifts LLC (America’s premier retailer of fart-making sound machines and the unsexiest sex toys) opens more than 1,300 Spirit Halloween stores across the nation, ostensibly making it the largest seller of spooky shit in the U.S. These stores are essentially pop-ups, inhabiting whatever empty spaces they can sink their claws into for three months out of the year, and then disappearing back into the fog-juice-scented ether from which they came.There are 14 Spirit locations in San Diego and the surrounding suburbs. Many of them occupy strip malls, grocery stores, Best Buys, and Panda Expresses — areas that don’t really have an identity to begin with, much less one that is at risk for becoming gentrified.“[Spirit Halloween] targets locations that are typically auto-oriented, [which provide] ease of access and lots of parking,” says Joe LaCava, a civil engineer and land use consultant. “But perhaps in some urban locations… they may be exactly what is needed — if only temporary.”This year, a Spirit opened in Rolando, one of the fastest gentrifying areas in San Diego. The building that it occupies was recently a discount clothing and accessory store called Super Saldos, whose namesake still resides on the tile at the entrance. A menacing clown decal has been placed in front of wall signage that reads “Handbags,” and the effect is fucking uncanny, like the clown is luring me in with the promise of a cheap purse.The transition between Super Saldos and Spirit seemed so quick that rigor mortis hadn’t even set in. It’s attractive to think that this was a strategic step toward curtailing the next encroaching hipster coffee shop, boutique or fruteria in the rapidly gentrifying neighborhood, but the reality is that landlords most likely view Spirit Halloween Stores as quick sources of income and/or temporary activations to attract permanent tenants.“[Spirit Halloweens] are exactly the kind of temporary activations many business districts desperately need to fill a vacant lot or an empty storefront,” LaCava says. “Many landlords don’t like to deal with temporary leases — always hoping that long-term tenant is about to show up.”When I ask what, if any, consideration goes into Spirit’s decisions that determine storefront locations, Marissa Uzzolino, Spencer’s public relations contact, replies:“Because we are a privately held company, I am not at liberty to discuss Spirit business; however, I can tell you that being a seasonal store has its advantages and disadvantages. For example, as the economy continues to improve, retailers are beginning to expand their portfolios and vacant spaces are beginning to backfill. We do face challenges securing the best locations; however, Spirit Halloween has an excellent real estate team that works year round to scope out and lock in the best locations available.”Uzzolino doesn’t respond to requests to talk with a member of Spirit’s real estate team, but I can read between the lines of her response: an improving economy makes it increasingly difficult for Spirit Halloweens to exist. I guess it makes sense — less death means fewer ghosts.There are large white letters behind makeshift walls in La Mesa’s Spirit Halloween. Even though I can only see the top of the lettering, it’s easy to make out what they say: “Frozen” and “Bakery.” Above the changing rooms, it reads “save on meat” — another revenant from the building’s former life, but still looks pervy above the area where people try on sexy costumes of nuns, boxers, and Freddy Krueger.This former grocery store has been closed since 2014, but it’s provided a generous corpse for Spirit Halloween to inhabit. In the far corner, they’ve set up a small spookhouse for customers to walk through. I take a step in and a scream blasts out of a hidden speaker, activated by my motion. It’s so loud that I jump out of my skin. I back the fuck out of the spookhouse as fast as I can. With my heart still pounding, I cross in front of a doghouse and a beast with glowing red eyes jumps out. It’s another motion-activated toy, but I still cower and then laugh. Had anybody ever had this much fun in here when it was a grocery store?The internet is abound with people commenting on the the strangeness of seeing former businesses reanimated as Spirit Halloween stores (can it get any more surreal than a Halloween shop in a former Babies ‘R Us?). Strange? Yes, but whatever unease comes from seeing a large baby pics among the horror is way less offensive than white people selling overpriced fruit to a Chicano community.Perhaps the revitalization qualities of Spirit Halloween Stores are minimal. There’s a good chance that I’m putting too much altruistic idealism in these slingers of spooktacular shit, but certainly there’s something we can learn from their non-impact on a community. Maybe we can even apply Spirit’s model to future businesses as an effort to keep gentrification in check. Maybe all stores should just be Halloween stores?After Halloween, the Spirits will disappear, leaving their buildings open for any type of ghosts to possess. Given the rate of gentrification and rapidly increasing real estate prices in San Diego, I’d wager that it’ll be something disruptive. Something like a poltergeist.According to the New York Times, a grim report recently issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change depicts “a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires, and a mass die-off of coral reefs as soon as 2040.”Questions ensued. About regulation, foot-dragging, and — surprisingly — whether anyone had even read the report. (When the Daily Beast asked an Environmental Protection Agency spokesperson about it, she reportedly replied, “What report? I haven’t heard of it.”)Meanwhile, others had questions about what they could do on a personal level.Some news outlets, including CNN, offered advice. Recommendations included traveling less, using car-sharing services, traveling by more efficient means (trains instead of planes), installing smart thermostats, and not eating animal products.Asking “What can I do?” is an understandable reaction to a revelation like this. Depending on the situation, we do have the ability — albeit limited — to change things. It’s as true of climate change as it is of democracy or terrorism. We can vote according to how we think society ought to be governed. We can say something when we see something. We can demand that a company — a manufacturer or polluter — change its ways.The power of an individual to effect change is so familiar that we rarely give it much thought. It’s become axiomatic in the last few decades, beginning somewhere in the 1970s and strengthening through the ’80s and ’90s. Our ideas about who we are and the roles we play in society have become more aligned with a powerful narrative of a free market linked to freedom of expression and choice. Whereas we once believed in “people power” as an effective tactic for systemic change, a more narrowly focused culture of the self has since taken hold.Nowhere is this more apparent than in Silicon Valley. Over the last few decades, a so-called Californian Ideology — a belief system centered on technological determinism, which melds hippie values with those of Ayn Rand-ian libertarians — has been baked into the mythology of internet-based innovation. As Richard Barbook and Andy Cameron wrote in 1995 when they coined the term, the hippies and the squares of the 1960s found common ground in the belief that they could “create a new ‘Jeffersonian democracy’ where all individuals would be able to express themselves freely within cyberspace.”We see echoes of this philosophy today in the language and aspirations of big tech — the idea that unencumbered freedom of expression and a platform of endless choice can be a gateway to global peace and prosperity. Facebook, for example, is a wet dream of the Californian Ideology. “In times like these, the most important thing we at Facebook can do is develop the social infrastructure to give people the power to build a global community that works for all of us,” CEO Mark Zuckerberg wrote last year.But as compelling a narrative as this is, it has its limits. Unlimited freedom of expression can only go so far before it begins to turn in on itself, closing us off and limiting our perspective when it comes to making larger structural changes.In other words, it doesn’t take much for the question “What can I do?” to sound less like a query of individual empowerment and more like a lament of total powerlessness.Take a systemic social problem like climate change. Framing climate change mitigation as an individual pursuit can only go so far, because it largely becomes a question of consumer choice. Effective only to a point, consumer-focused climate change mitigation works in many ways to reinforce a certain status quo — one wherein the very same polluters causing climate change are left in charge of figuring out how to stop it. We’re able to express our desire for better, more environmentally friendly products or services, but the extent of how environmentally friendly they become remains limited by motives beyond our control — namely, corporate profit and growth. Even as our individual choices change, the system itself remains in place.Thus, in a strange paradox, increasingly dire outlooks for the effects of climate change on our planet do not cause complete systemic overhaul, but instead work to reinforce the system. The worse it gets, the more we turn to consumer-level solutions, and the more reliant we become on the people or groups that create those products. And the harder it becomes to think of alternative ways to solve these issues.A week after the IPCC released its report on climate change, Facebook confirmed a New York Times report that Myanmar’s military leadership had purposefully “turned the social network into a tool for ethnic cleansing.” That news landed only days after Facebook admitted that, via a bug in its platform’s code, as many as 30 million people might have had their personal data stolen from the site.We are now months removed from spring’s push to #DeleteFacebook, and while some data show that the backlash against Facebook in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal prompted people to either delete the app or take an extended break from the site, Facebook remains largely unchanged.Climate change and Facebook are different, but related, threats. One is a genuine existential threat to humanity; the other is a problematic social networking platform that will not, on its own, cause catastrophic weather patterns, droughts, floods, and mass extinction. Still, Facebook cannot be separated from the debate over how to mitigate the effects of climate change — or how to prepare ourselves for it. Facebook is a powerful tool that shapes opinions and perspectives. It warps our understanding of major issues, including climate change.As it happens, our approach to “fixing” Facebook — ridding it of the attributes that allow it to be used to distort facts, or to spread propaganda and misinformation — runs aground in exactly the same way as our efforts to “fix” climate change.A lot of attention cast on Facebook lately has concentrated on groups — particularly how some influence or threaten others — but fundamentally, Facebook has always focused primarily on the individual. It’s our personal page. Our personal information. Our personal thoughts and comments. Our personal likes and our personalized news feed.Nothing changes when it comes to mitigating Facebook’s problems. It’s up to us as individuals to monitor and flag offensive content. It’s our responsibility to protect ourselves from fake news and propaganda. And, Facebook stresses again and again, it’s the responsibility of each individual user to adjust privacy and security settings.Yet, much like buying or avoiding consumer products to fight climate change, no matter how much we do each of the things Facebook recommends — no matter how vigilant we are in spotting and flagging fake news, no matter how high we set our privacy and security settings — all we’re ultimately doing is changing our personal experience. Meanwhile, the entire structure remains largely the same. Even if we spot fake news and refuse to engage with it, thus eliminating it from our own news feed, this action will not necessarily change the overall experience for anyone else. Structurally, Facebook stays the same.This is all the more true if you simply delete Facebook. Great for you, but nothing changes for anyone else.The argument against this, of course, is that with enough action on an individual level, we can make greater change. That might be true. However, the difficult question is: How much individual action does it take? Because of Facebook’s structure — and that of other major tech platforms like Uber, Amazon, and Twitter — answering this before it actually happens is next to impossible. It’s a goal that feels unreachable, and demoralizing.Upon entering the platform, we’re atomized by its design. We’re treated as isolated nodes, primarily because, as such, we’re easier to target and influence. But this also means we’re largely prevented, no matter how many groups we join, from truly understanding the scale of action needed to create real change.We’re isolated in much the same way when we approach mitigating climate change strictly as consumers. We can change our ways — buy different things, in one case, or insulate ourselves from misinformation in the other. These actions feel good, but it’s never clear whether any of them are making any difference.So what can we do but more of the same?Which brings us to the real sticking point: When we never see the results of our efforts play out in a larger way — not when we’re still unsure whether anything we’re doing is helping, but when we become convinced that nothing we ever do will amount to any significant change — the worst thing happens. We give up.Ideally, the solution to each of these problems, separate and together, is democracy — pushing for the right regulation at a national or international level. But the democracy has itself become ever more reliant on social media and technology. Increasingly, platforms are the prism through which we are exposed to democratic choice and interpret its efficacy. On the internet, we’re more likely to be aware of democracy’s failings than its successes. Maybe this is why, despite obvious examples of voting changing the course of history before our eyes, some people — for one reason or another — still believe their vote won’t matter.In the wake of the IPCC report and in response to various Facebook scandals that have made headlines all year, again and again, the call has been for more regulation, or perhaps just the right kind of regulation. But the problem might actually be a lack of imagination. We have built these individually focused structures in such a way that we are completely incapable of imagining a different way of doing things.Whether fighting climate change or fixing social platforms, we need to rediscover our imagination, before it’s too late.A noxious strain of H5N1 flu started killing people in 2003. It ranks among history’s most lethal viruses. But one of its cousins is much more famous. Popularly known as swine flu, that cousin is also rightly feared. But at its worst, H5N1 is three thousand times more likely to kill those it infects. Not three thousand percent more (which would be plenty bad) but three thousand times more.The World Health Organization has shown this strain kills a devastating 60 percent of those it strikes. That’s more deadly than Ebola, and almost all cancers. And of course, wayyyyy more (a technical term) than swine flu, which inflicts an almost genial death rate of just 0.02 percent. But for all its foibles, H5N1 has one trait I think we can all get behind: It’s not very contagious at all amongst humans.Outside of the lab, that is.Yet, that is.A flu strain’s transmissibility, i.e. its ability to easily move from person to person, lies in its genes. In 2011, researchers in Wisconsin and Holland looked hard at the relatively non-infectious H5N1 genome and (for lack of a better word) fixed it. This gave them mutant H5N1 strains which are every bit as deadly as the original flavor — but also highly contagious. Like, dare to have it all!An arm of the revered journal Science said a strain like this could “change world history if it were set free,” by triggering a pandemic “quite possibly with many millions of deaths.” The chair of the U.S. National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity, Paul Keim, said, “I can’t think of another pathogenic organism that is as scary as this one.” He added, “I don’t think anthrax is scary at all compared to this.” And I’ll add that Keim is an anthrax expert.There’s an optimistic way of viewing this, and let’s start there. Creating this abomination was a novel undertaking. Only a few experts in well-provisioned labs could have pulled it off in 2011. The ones who did were career virologists whose jobs involve preventing, not causing outbreaks. Most importantly, they merely created a tiny number of highly sequestered germs. Albeit, ones which could kill on the scale of a world war in the event of a boo-boo.Now, for the other view. Each variation on influenza is also a tiny data file. H5N1’s genome contains fewer letters than this essay (from an alphabet of just four letters). Its “vanilla” version is widely disseminated. And the letter changes needed to yield its most deadly designer mutant would surely fit onto a sheet of paper. Probably a Post-it note.That’s a lot of oomph for a speck of data. And unleashing its dormant fury would not require swiping test tubes from its labs of origin. All you’d need is that short list of genetic tweaks. It’s a precise recipe for recreating the virus anywhere. The level of training and specialized gear this would require is daunting. For now. But it’s also plummeting. It will continue to plummet, further and faster. The number of people capable of converting mere data into lethal pathogens will thereby explode.This surge has a close precedent, which I previously noted, in that lone lab techs can now exceed the output of the 13-year Human Genome Project (HGP) with just hours of effort. The budget compression is likewise extreme, ranging around three million to one since 2003 (the HGP cost roughly $3 billion, whereas the lab tech’s output will run you about a thousand bucks). Though astounding, this prior development is not innately menacing. The HGP’s underpinning technology is about reading genetic code. Whereas weaponizing something like the flu requires editing it.That’s a different trick. A harder one, too. But as previously occurred with genome reading, the tools for genetic editing are screaming through a fast-forward renaissance. Today’s top editing method didn’t even exist when those ghoulish flu strains were cooked up back in 2011. It’s called CRISPR, and it could be as transformative to gene editing as jet engines were to flight.CRISPR has already spread to the distant outskirts of academic science. Hundreds of college, and even high school teams convene annually for a bio-engineering jamboree called iGEM, which distributes an open catalog of dozens of CRISPR-based tools — all of them created by other students. iGEM is a truly inspiring event. It draws thousands of young minds who have vast potential to help humankind. It also shows us how quickly and broadly synbio’s breakthroughs will diffuse as the field’s lightning emergence continues.This makes it unimaginable that narrow and trusted elites will retain exclusive dominion over any element of synbio — including the dark art of making monstrous pathogens, like the 2011 flu hacks. These aren’t brilliant acts of raw creation, after all — but ones of narrow editing. Ones enabled by ever-improving tools, whose enhancements quickly become ubiquitous.Nature did all the heavy lifting by creating ghastly starting points like influenza, Ebola, anthrax, and meningitis. Laboratories have housed entire zoos of these critters for decades, and their carefully annotated genetic codes are globally accessible to anyone. Convenient links to dozens of them can be found right here (among countless other places).Untold thousands of turbo-charged pathogens will eventually be designed for a slew of reasons. Some will be thesis projects. Others will be byproducts of medical research. Many will be the handiwork of white-hatted good guys, trying to stay ahead of the bad guys (one of many reasons why iGEM is a laudable endeavor). A few will be designed as attention-getting stunts.Many of these lethal recipes will be tightly controlled. Indeed, most may never escape the digital vaults of their creators. But tiny data files of great consequence have ways of diffusing. Many profound financial and government secrets are hacked in any given month. And it’s no bold sci-fi forecast to predict that school bio labs will lack the defenses of even security laughingstocks like Equifax.Not all will try to keep their creations secret anyway. Posting a pandemic-grade genome to Reddit could be someone’s way of giving the world the finger. A techno-anarchist might view it as a sublime moral act. Or it could be a nihilist’s naked attempt to trigger an actual plague. And once those files are out in the wild, they’ll stay there. Ask any movie studio straining to stamp out piracy of its catalog. The blueprints of malign genomes will inevitably course through the Dark Web alongside child porn, drug offers, and terrorist chatter. And as they emerge, they’ll be anthologized, swapped, and stored broadly.For now, simple genetic printers don’t exist — and no apparatus of any complexity can crank out virus-length genomes from scratch. But this will change. Like computing, genomics and synbio ride exponential improvement curves. At least one is even steeper than that of Moore’s Law, which famously tracks performance gains in computing. This is why today’s copier-sized sequencers out-sequence the Human Genome Project, which preoccupied thousands of scientists (and acres of clunky gear) for 13 years. By 2038, budget DNA synthesizers will crank out wonders the entire field of synbio couldn’t conjure today. And they may require scarcely more technical skill than hitting a Print button.Richard Preston once said, “the main thing that stands between the human species and the creation of a supervirus is a sense of responsibility among the individual biologists.” This was almost certainly fine back in 2011, when the relevant people were respected virologists. (That said, the FBI concluded that an Army biodefense researcher carried out 2001’s anthrax attacks, so you never know.)Things will become less stable when the world’s elite life science students enter the pool of potential supervirus creators. This group isn’t renowned for its bloodlust, obviously. However, one of the decade’s most notorious mass murderers once belonged to it. And eventually, another almost certainly will. Because as time passes and a community grows, the odds of someone from it doing something bizarrely awful go from slim, to high, to near-certain.Creeping further down the academic ladder, pre-med students are far more numerous still, and have certainly been known to go off the rails sometimes. And quiet, brainy high school kids may be one of the deadlier demographics in America. Synbio techniques will gradually diffuse throughout medicine as well. This rightly revered field has done far more good than harm to most of us. But the British Medical Journal also notes that “medicine has arguably thrown up more serial killers than all the other professions put together, with nursing a close second.”The prior essay in this series argues the most likely culprits in a super A.I. crisis will be smug teams of elites taking shortcuts while chasing profits. But when it comes to synbio risk, lone suicidal mass murderers concern me more. Each year, a tiny fraction of people seek their own deaths in the act of slaughtering as many random victims as possible, as the second essay in this series discusses in depth. They rarely stop until they’re dead themselves. And so, we must rationally assume at least some of them would kill every last one us, if they only could.Or — if ever they can.Should such a ghastly outcome ever transpire, what might we call our annihilator? In an email exchange with me about this essay, Naval Ravikant coined the term The Ender, which I find evocative. Some of the people behind America’s near-daily mass shootings are probably Enders at heart. But none have a remote crack at dropping the curtains on humanity. Only those commanding huge nuclear arsenals do, for now. And they’ll retain their grim monopoly for a while, yet.But not forever. Yes, the risk of an engineered pandemic is currently small. Some might put our odds of dodging catastrophe north of 99.9 percent over the next decade. And they’d probably be right. But the thing about decades is that they’re followed by more decades. And then by half-centuries, and so on. Should a giga-murder happen, its exact year will be a minor aspect of a tragedy without precedent. Those who mock fears or precautions today based on accurate forecasts of a quiet early decade or two will not then be lauded as prescient heroes.Of course, it’s ideal and relieving that there’s been no synbio terrorism to date. But this has zero predictive relevance. Myspace dominated social media until 2008. And Myspace was about as ingeniously run as a coke-addled fraternity of C-minus students. Who imagined its heir would soon be accused of hijacking major elections? If you’re raising your hand, please lower it, because you’re fooling no one.The experts I’ve discussed this with think it’s nigh impossible that any one pandemic could come close to wiping us out. Society’s defenses against pandemics are incalculably better than when the Black Death rampaged, or when Spanish Flu killed up to 6 percent of all humans. But this could be gravely offset by intention and malevolent design. For all its faults, Spanish Flu bore us no ill will. Nor did blind evolution imbue it with cunning modifications to maximize deadliness, obscure detection, make incubation periods maximally lethal, etc. And let’s not forget that multiple pathogenic demons could be released at once.We must therefore be vigilant to potential abuses of the amazing tools synbio is starting to bless us with. This means good people need to start thinking like the Ender now — lest there ever actually be an Ender — because a failed Ender could deform human history without achieving anything close to full annihilation.Few countries retain the resilience that once helped us weather widespread death (think of how would it go if morbid cases swamped your local hospital’s capacity by a factor of hundreds). Also, consider the years of bloodshed and general derangement that followed the 2,977 homicides of September 11th. A dud of a wannabe Ender attack could be thousands of times more lethal than that. Who knows what grievous harm we might inflict upon ourselves in the aftermath?But what could possibly motivate a wannabe Ender? Those of us who can’t fathom the mindset of rampage murderers may be ill-equipped to answer this. But motivations might not be limited to criminal insanity. Nonviolent belief systems often get contorted to promote mass murder. We can’t rule out one someday being hijacked to champion complete human destruction.Consider the spooky antinatalists, who contend that life is so awful, it’s immoral to bring further humans into the world. Could an offshoot faction conclude that it would be a high moral act to exterminate the species? The Voluntary Human Extinction Movement — whose plan for restoring the biosphere should be self-evident — might likewise spawn a Mandatory faction.This may sound far-fetched but as suicidal mass murder normalizes, it’s hitching rides on causes and motives that would have been unimaginable recently. Some so-called incels have seen their failure to get nooky as just cause for mass slaughter. A grumpy taxpayer ended it all while nipping at the IRS. A minor YouTuber went out blasting at the service’s staff for delivering less attention and ad dollars than she craved. And so on.Even jihadi suicide attacks were unheard of back when America endured thousands of bombings per year (yes, really) in the early ’70s. Those attacks were carried out by domestic groups, which mostly strove not to hurt anyone (these were hippie terrorists, see). Suicide bombing gained its first scant toehold in the vast Muslim world in the ’80s. This was at first limited to Lebanese militias tied to Shi’a Islam, which connects to the concept of martyrdom in deep and unique ways.The new practice took many years to jump to the larger Sunni world. It wasn’t even adopted by neighboring Palestinian groups, which had by then logged decades of armed conflict. Israel’s first forty years of history passed with ample violence, but not a single suicide bombing on its territory. But the contagion eventually jumped — and in the first half-decade of the millennium, there were 129 such attacks within Israel’s borders and the occupied territories, substantially all carried out by Palestinian Sunnis.This shows the historically unthinkable can swiftly become all too commonplace. And violent acts — much like slang, skirt lengths, and autotuning — can be trendy. Suicidal mass murderer is a meme with momentum. And some of its practitioners are wannabe Enders at heart. But wannabe Enders who buy mass-murder gear at retail are hard to distinguish from run-of-the-mill rampage killers. So we don’t know how common the Ender mindset is.The unmistakable signature of a would-be Ender will be an attack using a highly lethal, untargeted technology. It will be a singular event (until the copycats show up). And I do believe it will involve synbio.A gradual, obvious drumbeat of lesser incidents preceding a synbio cataclysm could trigger awareness and countermeasures. But such a pattern is unlikely. The first synbio attack will occur when a wannabe Ender enters the group of people who are capable of perpetrating one. Such people are probably quite rare. So this will happen not at all — until it happens all at once.In the run-up to this, a technology ban would be senseless. Above all, it would be all but unenforceable (recall that illicit drug labs are both illegal and ubiquitous). And at its most effective, it would give rogue nations and evil actors a monopoly on apocalyptic arts. That’s no way to prevent a catastrophe.The first would-be Ender’s attack will be every bit as unprecedented as 9/11. The sole way to contain it is to keep it from being equally unexpected. Our defenders enabled 9/11 by having a catastrophic lack of imagination. Not a lack of foresight (airports had been geared to detect and prevent hijackings since the early ’70s). Not a lack of budget (we quickly spent trillions reacting to 9/11, after all). And certainly not a lack of warning signs. But the imagination deficit was astounding.Just suppose that a roomful of intelligence analysts were summoned to a brainstorming session on the morning of September 10th, 2001. They’re told to figure out how terrorists could bring down a skyscraper with just a few sharp objects. Assume they’re each brilliant, and urged to think well outside the box. And that they’re highly diverse, representing a wide spectrum of ethnic and religious perspectives. How long would they take to solve the puzzle?Recall that while the 9/11 planners were many things, they were not geniuses. Also, that they assigned their non-ingenious plan to a team of mediocrities — most of whom were too dim to realize they were on a suicide mission. These were scrawny men, with an average height of about 5’ 6”, who could barely navigate the alien country they were operating in.So again: how long should it take our brilliant analysts to hit upon the worst-case act of a group this underpowered? Could it possibly take until lunchtime? Or even their first coffee break? I doubt it would have taken them even an hour, impossible though it is to prove. From this, I conclude that people of their ilk were rarely asked to use even a wisp of their imaginations.So what should we do about the coming collision of the Ender mindset with synbio, and perhaps other technologies?This is actually a rare instance in which it would be highly productive to freak out. Like, a lot.Out in public, we need to tell ourselves terrifying stories, and lose a great deal of sleep. Within top-secret conference rooms, we should meanwhile ask some of our most brilliant and twisted citizens to think hard about low-budget, diabolical acts before wannabe Enders come up with them. Then, we need to make those acts nigh impossible. Or at minimum, completely unsurprising.We’re actually pretty good at this. Faced with the prospect of nuclear annihilation, we freaked out for years at a stretch. We told ourselves ghost stories with names like Dr. Strangelove, On the Beach, Fail Safe, and War Games. Much scarier tales were meanwhile told at top secret conferences and in classified briefings. Then, when the Cuban Missile Crisis hit, the chain-smokers in those Moscow and Washington war rooms didn’t need to use their imaginations one iota. Plenty of imagining had already been done for them — and its output had been singed into their very neurons. They knew exactly what was at stake. And so, humanity survived.George Orwell freaked on another front, in 1948. Haunted by premonitions about modern totalitarianism, he spun a terrifying yarn called 1984. This inoculated much of the global intelligentsia from romanticizing Stalinism. Dean Acheson, and other top policymakers, also panicked in highly productive ways. There were plenty of excesses that no one should ever be proud of. But in the end, the USSR vanished without firing a shot — and this was far better than the best-case outcome any realist ever pondered.There are countless other examples. For instance, you can laugh all you want at the Terminator franchise. But while it won’t preclude a super A.I. crisis, it’s far less likely that one will catch us wholly unawares. Ditto an alien invasion (although that one ranks close to vampires and werewolves on the probability scale).If 1 percent of our intelligence budget had gone into thinking wicked, creative thoughts before Osama bin Laden could come up with them, a middle school hockey team could’ve stomped his wimpy crew before they got to flight school. So, again: We cannot let our imaginations to fail us anew. Which means we need the equivalent of that counterfactual room of analysts on September 10th.Only, we need armies of them. And we need them on the case for their entire careers, not just a single morning. We need to pay them well to work long hours, and flood their offices with coffee, pizza, beer, weed, acid, and maybe even toad venom. And we need self-organizing volunteers. People to tell the sorts of ghost stories that can rally society’s antibodies before something lethal actually happens. And proactive folks who can spot subtle security loopholes in their workplaces or daily lives before a wannabe Ender can.The aspiring Enders that we’ll really need to worry about have certain scary advantages. They live at least a few decades in the future, so they know lots of things that we don’t. They’re fueled by hatred and grudges we can’t fathom, which pushes their imaginations in alien directions. They’re probably smarter on average than we are on average. Plus, they’re wholly committed, and truly relentless.But we outnumber them vastly. We’re connected, whereas they’re isolated. And we can start thinking about this now — perhaps before most dangerous would-be Enders are even born.As a novelist, I can’t help but end with a little plot twist. It’s this: I’m a relentless optimist. A borderline pathological one. I see so much radiant potential in synbio, A.I., and other emerging technologies, it practically burns my retinas. I spent the last year discussing these subjects with dozens of brilliant scientists and founders, and am convinced that if we get things right, humanity faces a dazzling future.The antinatalists, in fact, have it backward. Allowing an apocalypse on our watch would be a cataclysmic moral wrong to our heirs, because they’re likely to have it so goddamned good (yes, even though they’ll probably whine as much as we do — which is annoying — but that’s humans for you). If you doubt that, compare your own lot to that of anyone living in the Dark Ages, potentates and royalty included. By any measurable gauge of human thriving, the centuries get more and more odious as you recede into the past.But luckily for us, technology accrued relentlessly over those very centuries. Technology that now prevents diseases, generates calories, transforms matter, transports everything, distributes knowledge, and so on.Some may say precautions are pricey, and won’t we look dumb if they prove unnecessary? But we feel grateful, not foolish, when our fire insurance providers don’t send checks to the cinders of our homes. We’re not annoyed to have wasted some moments fastening a seatbelt when a trip ends safely. And low plane crash rates don’t invalidate aviation safety spending — they vindicate it.Humanity may or may not face a long future. If it does, that future will be shaped and defined by uninvented technologies we can’t possibly foretell. This is exciting as hell! But it calls for great humility and prudence. Because if there is a long future, it’s worth getting to.Yes, the much-anticipated Halloween reboot recently murdered its competition at the box office. But I regret to inform you that Michael Myers is not the most frightening monster in cinema. No, it’s not Friday the 13th’s Jason, nor Freddy of Elm Street infamy. Nor is it the Alien and Predator of Alien and Predator (respectively), Jack Nicholson in The Shining, Regan in The Exorcist, or any other traditional movie monster. I’m not afraid of any of them. That’s because I have seen the horrid, shriveled face of true cinematic evil and the inhuman, glowing finger that accompanied it.I do not like E.T. No, check that: I loathe E.T. I hate E.T. to the core of my being. If I came home one day to find my family brutally murdered, E.T. covered in their blood, and using said blood to write “ROB BRICKEN IS AN ASSHOLE” on the wall, I would not find him more awful than I do already. Yet, somehow, countless others love E.T. His eponymous movie is regarded as one of the best family friendly films ever made, and among Steven Spielberg’s crowning achievements.It should go without saying that everyone is wrong, and have all been tricked by Spielberg and his malformed creation into believing E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial is wholesome and heartwarming, despite the overwhelming evidence to the contrary. Chances are, you are one of these tens of millions of misguided souls. If so, read on, because I have an unassailable argument for why this so-called lovable alien should be feared and hated, beginning with this undeniable fact: E.T. looks like male genitalia.I don’t say this to be crass. I absolutely do not like that he looks this way, but it cannot be denied. His large torso is a brownish, wrinkled sack atop two small feet. His head is bulbous, and upsettingly lies atop a long neck which E.T. extends whenever he is excited. It is a bleak truth, but a truth all the same. The proof is now that you’ve been made aware of it, you will never be able to unsee it, no matter how many times you watch the film.But even if E.T. looked as comfortably human as Spock from Star Trek, it wouldn’t excuse what is considered one of the film’s most charming scenes: When E.T. gets a child drunk. After inviting an alien into his home, 10-year-old Elliott leaves for school the next morning; once alone in the house, E.T.’s almost immediate action is to consume alcohol.He pounds a six-pack in about five minutes, which would be problematic enough. However, E.T. has formed a psychic connection with Elliott that the boy neither asked for nor consented to. So, while the alien drunkenly rampages through the house, the equally inebriated Elliot tries to free all the frogs scheduled for live dissection that day in class. Most heinously of all, when E.T. sees a couple kiss on TV, he sends poor, prepubescent Elliott the command to harass one of his female schoolmates by kissing her, too. This is not heartwarming.It could be argued that at this point E.T. has not realized the symbiotic connection he’s formed with Elliott, and I can’t prove otherwise. However, the alien has no excuses for what follows. After having the idea to “phone home” while bombed, E.T. mysteriously starts falling ill. That night, the alien forces his young, devoted friend to take him to the forest to make his call, and sleep there on the ground, in the cold, overnight. When Elliott’s older brother Michael arrives, he discovers not only that Elliott has become severely sick, but he sees one of the most horrific sights in all of cinema: The bloated, fish-belly-white body of the terminally ill E.T, screaming in agony. This is simply awful to behold.Now that E.T. and Elliott are both dying, Michael brings them back to the house, where another horror awaits — the silent, masked government men in protective suits. My feelings on the film aside, I know for a fact that this scene traumatized many a child of the ’80s, even those who now claim to enjoy the movie, especially after the scientists pull the screaming E.T. and Elliott away from each other. But that’s neither here nor there.Here’s the secret, horrifying truth: E.T. was going to murder Elliott.Don’t laugh, because I can prove it. First of all, we must examine why E.T. gets sick when his spaceship leaves. And just as importantly, why E.T. gets better as the spaceship approaches Earth again. Clearly the aliens’ life forces are tied to each other, or their ship, in some way that’s not strictly physical. It’s only when E.T.’s spaceship and his people approach — or rather, get within a certain proximity — that he returns to life in that creepy little body bag as Elliott sobs over his corpse (and again, what a charming family film this is). Elliott theorizes this in the movie, and E.T. agrees, so we may accept this as fact.Now, it’s arguable that E.T. might not have known he needed his ship/people to live, and didn’t realize it until his resurrection, but this is a race that has mastered interstellar travel; it seems unlikely that they would somehow take these trips without being aware of the danger of getting separated or left behind. They’re scientists, they’ve come to Earth to study the flora; it seems absurd that they’re ignorant about what they need to survive. Also, E.T.’s urgency in constructing the device to “phone home” is indicative that he knows his death is nigh.Why, then, would he psychically bond with a human child when he’s knowingly been given a death sentence? Why would he choose to tie a child’s life to his own, especially after he realizes he has so little time left? At best — at best — this is a horrifying, callous disregard for Elliott’s life. At worst, E.T. enters into a murder-suicide pact with Elliott that he never informs him of.E.T. is dying, he knows he’s dying, and decides he’s going to take Elliott’s life with him when he goes. How do we know that the psychic bond between the two is something E.T. can control? Because after bringing Elliott to the brink of death, E.T. finally relents and releases Elliott from his psychic bond, allowing the boy to get better. But if E.T. could release him, why wait so long? Why watch Elliott suffer? Why get so close to actually killing him when it was clearly not at all necessary, and well within E.T.’s power to stop?There’s your lovable alien in your beloved family flick. A creature who, knowing he’s about to die, decides to needlessly take a child out with him, only to change his mind at the last minute.Happily, at this point in the film, E.T. dies; unhappily, he’s resurrected by the approaching spaceship of his people, who have been “phoned” and guilted into picking up the comrade they accidentally (?) left behind. All that’s left is for Elliott to spirit E.T. away from the scientists who saved his young life, speed back to the forest while chased by government agents, and for E.T. to use his powers to levitate the bikes of a large group of children trying to get him back to his spaceship, in a truly magical, iconic moment of immense child endangerment.I knew E.T. was evil from a very early age. When my mother first took me to see the film in 1982, I was five, and realized almost instantly that E.T. was a malevolent being from space. The rest of the film only confirmed my initial assessment and, to my young mind, indisputably proved the following facts about aliens:Thanks to this so-called family friendly movie, I immediately developed a fear of aliens that endured into my teens, because my circumstances were just like Elliott’s. The aspect that terrified me most was the prospect of E.T., or a similar alien, abducting me because it thought I was its friend. Somehow, that misunderstanding was worse than all the evil aliens and movie murderers combined. I would still rather be attacked by Halloween’s Michael Myers, because at least you know where you stand with him.What if E.T. thought I wanted to go to outer space, and dragged me with him? After all, an alien wouldn’t know human communication cues — it might mistake my screams of terror for a desire to be dragged into a spaceship, away from my friends and family forever. The aliens might even think that I wanted to be vivisected, and I’d consider it a huge favor if they started removing my organs. If I’m their first human friend, it doesn’t matter how nice they are, if I’m the one they need to gruesomely murder to figure out. “So, it turns out humans need to keep all their organs on the inside. Somebody write that down for next time.”From the age of five, I lived in mortal terror that aliens would abduct me, and no one could convince me otherwise. All it would take was a light to move past my window to convince me an alien ship was here and looking for me. I can’t imagine how many hours I spent terrified in bed, afraid to move or make a noise because I was completely confident the aliens’ scanners would detect me. Also, thanks to a babysitting session, overseen by my less than hands-on grandmother, I was somehow allowed to watch the original 1983 V miniseries — you know, the one where the human-seeming aliens rip off their faces to reveal that they are horrible, hamster-eating lizard people — so I wasn’t entirely sure my parents weren’t also secret hamster-eating lizard people from outer space.I blame E.T. for all this. If it hadn’t been for that slimy, disgusting monstrosity I might have been all right. Instead, I had to live in a world where it seemed like only I recognized the fact that E.T. was a goddamned horror film.Now, I know: I am not alone. The internet has helped me find other souls who have been similarly traumatized by this alien asshole. We know the truth, and we take solace in that, and each other. I don’t know if history will ever recognize that we’re right — because again, we totally, completely are — or if future generations will somehow ignore this alien’s murderous ways, his diabolical actions, and his testicular appearance. Perhaps most people will be forever blinded to E.T.’s heinous evils by the light of his long, iconic, red-glowing finger.You know. The one he uses to touch children.The president was dead. His assailant was dead. The country was in crisis.The new president, Lyndon B. Johnson, who had been so ignored as vice president that his name was still in the phone book, created a commission to investigate the slaying. In November 1963, he persuaded the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Earl Warren, to lead the inquiry — an unprecedented mix of judicial and executive branch powers that LBJ felt was necessary to give the panel the credibility it needed to dispel rumors that Russia or others were behind the attack.A week after the assassination LBJ reached out to Richard Russell, a respected Senate Democrat, to join the inquiry. The Georgian, who was LBJ’s mentor, balked.“You’re my man on that commission and you’re going to do it,” Johnson fumed in a phone call to Russell. “Don’t tell me what you can’t do. I can’t arrest you, but you’re sure goddamn well going to serve. You’re going to do it.”Two years later, LBJ would use his power to roll over Russell and southern segregationists and sign the 1964 Civil Rights Act. A year later, he’d clobber segregationists with the Voting Rights Act and, later, the Fair Housing Act.Johnson’s phone call with Russell was recorded. You can hear it here. Democrats would be wise to listen to it and its lessons about power. Maybe every day.It captures Johnson’s sheer force of will and his unambiguous determination to make others bend to it — as Robert Caro recounted in his multivolume biography of the 36th president. But LBJ wasn’t all id. He had other arrows in his quiver: shameless flattery, relentless energy, an encyclopedic knowledge of procedural trickery. But the call was a reminder that unrelenting determination often matters as much as tactical smarts.The phone call to Russell resonates because this is an uncertain autumn for Democrats. They stand poised to take back the House of Representatives, a triumph that would give them the chance to stymie Republican legislation but also use the chamber’s powers to investigate the President or even impeach him. At the same time, they might lose seats in the U.S. Senate. The fall has also been a reminder of the Democrats’ seemingly endless capacity to blow it. Brett Kavanaugh’s ascension to the Supreme Court, after its near derailment, underscored two years of Democratic heartbreak. Watching Kavanaugh sworn in was bad enough for Democrats; seeing it come after Antonin Scalia’s seat was kept vacant for a year underscored their powerlessness, if not impotence.Are Democrats allergic to power, to ruthlessly wielding it? This is a question that has been brewing for years, but it would have seemed like an idiotic proposition to earlier generations. The Democratic party, whose antecedents date back to Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, is often considered the oldest political party in the world. (It was called the Democratic-Republican party back then and evolved into our Democratic party under Andrew Jackson, which is why most state fundraising events for the party are called Jefferson-Jackson dinners, except where it offends modern sensibilities.)For most of its history, the Democratic party has been led by presidents who believed in power. Franklin Roosevelt’s leadership was muscular even if his legs failed him. Facing a Supreme Court that invalidated much of his New Deal, FDR threatened to pack the court with new appointees, diluting the power of the conservative old guard. (Mirabile dictu, the court began to rule his way.) FDR also found every way he could to support Great Britain as it faced the Nazis, despite contending with an isolationist Congress. Woodrow Wilson went from the presidency of Princeton to the presidency of the United States in only two years. A pinched intellectual, he was a scholar of presidential power who also used his intuitive understanding of it to advance the Progressive movement and lead America into World War I. He also used his power to segregate the civil service. No one would say he didn’t understand power.Over the past two centuries, the Democratic establishment has undergone endless ideological gyrations. The party of slavers and segregationists became the home of freedom riders and feminists. Jefferson and Jackson’s party of smaller government spawned an alphabet soup of federal agencies. But there wasn’t much doubt about its ability to use authority for good or ill, and not just in the White House. Tammany Hall, Boss Tweed, the Daleys of Chicago — hell, even George Wallace. Love them. Hate them. You wouldn’t say they were wary of power.Today’s Democrats seem weaker by comparison. Some of it is the nature of the Congress. No one thinks of Jerry Brown as he departs office as governor of California as weak. But congressional Democrats do seem befuddled. Some of that is a function of being in the minority. Look at Cory Booker. As mayor of Newark he was a brave whirling dervish of reform in a city that desperately needed it. As a low-ranking senator in the minority, he’s reduced to asking prickly octogenarian Chuck Grassley for an additional minute to speak. Being in the minority in Congress is like being at a conference table where everyone else is in a nice Aeron chair and you’re perched on a preschooler’s stool. The humiliation is baked in.But the Democrats have a much bigger problem with power, and it has bedeviled them for years. The GOP has been knocking down norms since well before Donald Trump was elected, playing harder and tougher. This is not to say that Democrats are saintly and Republicans thuggish or Democrats ascetic and the GOP Machiavellian. There have been plenty of times in recent decades when Democrats mugged Republicans. The nomination of Robert Bork is often cited as such a moment. Democrats were also unbecoming during the George W. Bush era when they jammed up judicial nominations, preventing an up or down vote on GOP nominees like Miguel Estrada — perhaps inspired by Republican treatment of Clinton nominees like Elena Kagan. (Note: Estrada helped represent me in a First Amendment case that went to the Supreme Court in 2005.) Democrats can be pricks, too.But Republicans have been playing harder ball for much longer. Back in 1988, Michael Dukakis was unprepared for the Willie Horton ad and the onset of attacks from Republicans. In the 2000 Florida recount, the GOP famously sent master power player James Baker to lead the recount effort (along with a posse of operatives posing as protesters), while Gore’s team was led by the more restrained Warren Christopher, setting up the Supreme Court’s conservatives to deliver the coup d’grâce. In 2004, John Kerry put so much stock in his Vietnam War record that he barely mentioned his 20 years in the U.S. Senate during his acceptance speech as Democratic nominee. But, famously, his campaign was unprepared for the “Swift Boating” of his record. Counterfactuals are always hard to play out. But it’s not unreasonable to assume that if Democrats had been tougher, we might have seen a President Dukakis or Kerry. Attempts at looking tough — Dukakis in a tank; Howard Dean cheering loudly — were easily portrayed as pathetic because they played into a preexisting narrative of Democrats as wimps.Bill Clinton and Barack Obama were elected and reelected, of course, but each had his own challenges. For Clinton it was the Kenneth Starr manhunt and all the associated craziness, while Obama had to contend with charges that he was a socialist and wasn’t American. Each got things done because of his willingness to embrace the understanding—articulated by the first Democrat, Thomas Jefferson—that “The ground of liberty is to be gained by inches.” Each ran into unalloyed opposition. No Republican voted for Clinton’s economic plan in 1993, just as none did for Obama’s health care plan.I’ll tell you a story. At the end of 2010, Obama made a smart deal with Republicans. The Bush tax cuts were about to expire, which would have meant a massive tax hike on all Americans while the economy was still wobbly from the financial crisis. Obama marched to the White House briefing room to coo about the deal. He was asked if the Republicans might use the pending need for a debt ceiling hike to try to extract more cuts in social programs. Obama dismissed the possibility.But Obama was wrong, and naive in the extreme. Republicans used the debt ceiling as a lever in a way it never had been used before. To his credit, Obama, like Clinton, managed to turn the government shutdown against the Republicans, essentially transforming his powerlessness into an asset.Obama got a lot done, none bigger than health care, but with the Merrick Garland nomination, Obama seemed to unilaterally disarm. Yes, he expressed anger that the GOP-controlled Senate would not permit a vote on his nominee. But he didn’t fight back every day. It was as if he had become numb to Mitch McConnell’s norm-smashing filibustering. The psychologists call it “learned helplessness,” like when animals who are subjected to cruelty in the lab lose the will to help themselves out of a bind.Power is an art. It requires knowing one’s goal and knowing how to take what you can get — Jefferson’s game of inches — while at the same time keeping sight of your larger goals. Lyndon Johnson used his power artfully when it came to domestic policy, but couldn’t make Southeast Asia bend to his will. (Six months later, he’d be calling Richard Russell to lament about Vietnam.)We don’t know which of the Democrats toying with a presidential bid will have the will to power, to use Nietzsche’s oft-debated phrase. Elizabeth Warren has the fight, but the Harvard Law School professor’s DNA flub makes you wonder if she knows how to pick her battles. Joe Biden knows the system, but four decades in a Senate that was more genial may have left the septuagenarian unprepared for the battles ahead. Outliers like lien-plagued Michael Avenatti are pugilists, not leaders.It’s usually hard to identify those with a masterly ability to wield power. Abraham Lincoln was a former Congressman and traveling lawyer when he was elected, and FDR, while a successful governor, was considered to be so without beliefs that he was dubbed “a chameleon on plaid.” The truth is the Democrats probably won’t know they’ve picked the right captain and commander until they’re thrust into power. If they’re thrust into power.I love nutrition science. On my first teaching job, I was assigned to teach a nutrition course, and it was like falling in love. To this day, I love the intellectual challenge of figuring out what we eat, why we eat what we do, and how diets affect our health. I love the complexity of food issues and the passion people bring to every one of them. But I do not love the way the food industry has added an unnecessary complication: engaging nutrition professionals in marketing objectives, sometimes against the interests of public health.My new book, Unsavory Truth, is about how food, beverage, and supplement companies (collectively, food companies) fund nutrition researchers and practitioners and their professional associations, with the ultimate goal of promoting sales. This book appears at a time when scandals created by such funding make front-page news. Let me plunge right in with an unexpected — and highly surreal — example of why this topic should matter to all of us.You may recall that during the especially contentious U.S. presidential race of 2016, hackers linked to the Russian government stole a trove of electronic messages from Democratic Party officials and posted them on the WikiLeaks website. They also stole emails from people working on Hillary Clinton’s campaign and posted them on a new website, DCLeaks. International intrigue like this ought to seem light-years removed from food-industry funding of nutrition professionals, except for one truly bizarre coincidence: The cache on DCLeaks included messages exchanged between Capricia Marshall, an adviser to the Clinton campaign, and Michael Goltzman, a vice president at the Coca-Cola Company. While working with Clinton, Marshall was also consulting for Coca-Cola and billing the company $7,000 a month for her services.The Coca-Cola emails may have been collateral damage from Russian interference in the U.S. election, but for my research, they were a gift — not least because I turn up in them. The hacked emails included a January 2016 message from the director of an Australian agency doing public relations for Coca-Cola with notes taken at a lecture I had just presented to the Sydney chapter of the Nutrition Society of Australia. The emailed notes on my lecture — quite nicely done, actually — name some of the people attending my talk, review its content, and advise Coca-Cola to monitor my future presentations, research, and presence on social media.I vaguely remember someone telling me that a representative from Coca-Cola was at my talk, but I thought nothing of it. My 2015 book about the soft-drink industry, Soda Politics: Taking on Big Soda (and Winning), had just been published, and I assumed that someone from that industry was in the audience at every talk I gave. The stolen emails demonstrate Coca-Cola’s intense interest in the activities of individuals anywhere in the world who might question the health effects of its products.The emails also reveal this particular company’s pressures on reporters — and their editors — who write about such topics. In 2015, Candice Choi, a reporter for the Associated Press (AP), was investigating Coca-Cola’s recruitment of dietitians to promote sodas on social media. The company’s public relations staff had been working with dietitians for years to get them “to place sponsored content that promotes how our beverages can fit within a healthy, balanced diet.” Because the staff expected Choi’s article “to have a cynical, negative perspective,” they “reached out to the AP’s editors to formally register concerns about the story,” promising to “continue to urge them not to run with the story.” In this instance, the pressures did not succeed. As published, Choi’s article described the ways food companies worked “behind the scenes to cast their products in a positive light, often with the help of third parties who are seen as trusted authorities.” She quoted a company spokesman’s defense of this strategy: “We have a network of dietitians we work with… Every big brand works with bloggers or has paid talent.” Really? Thanks to the emails, we now know something about how this system works.The emails show how Coca-Cola operates to influence reporters who write about such topics. Coca-Cola staff were on a first-name basis with Mike Esterl, a reporter for the Wall Street Journal. They had learned about a study demonstrating the benefits of soda taxes and wanted to make sure that “Mike understood the source of the study and that it had not been published or peer reviewed yet.” Another message said, “FYI — please note we have been engaging Candice Choi AP reporter since April on this story and there have been numerous engagements — both verbal and written.”This same email also refers to the cozy relationship between Coca-Cola’s then–chief scientific officer, Rhona Applebaum, and university scientists conducting research funded by the company. Coca-Cola staff wrote that they had confirmation from Choi that her story would include an email exchange in which Applebaum referred to the group of university researchers she works with regularly as the “cartel” and another in which Applebaum referred to critics of Coca-Cola as “trolls.” Choi’s published article (in which I am quoted) made two points: Industry-funded research typically promotes the sponsor’s interests, and some researchers make a living doing research funded by food companies and trade associations. She noted that one such group “regularly delivered favorable conclusions for funders — or as they call them, clients.”Other messages referred to Coca-Cola’s lobbying to influence federal nutrition advice. The public relations team worried that the academic advisory committee responsible for reviewing the research for the 2015 Dietary Guidelines for Americans had proposed “eliminating sugar-sweetened beverages from schools, taxing them, and restricting advertising of foods and beverages with ‘high’ sodium or added sugars for all populations.” The public relations team suggested that the company “should be prepared for this report to be cited frequently by activists” and should “work together to balance coverage.” Coca-Cola’s director of government relations later assured colleagues that his team had been working closely with Congress and federal agencies “to ensure that policy recommendation on a soda tax is not included in the final guidelines.” These efforts succeeded; the word “tax” does not appear anywhere in the 2015 dietary guidelines.Overall, the hacked emails offer a rare glimpse into how this beverage company — simply in the normal course of doing business — attempted to influence nutritionists, nutrition research, journalists covering this research, and dietary advice to the public. Other food companies do this too when they can. The difference? Coca-Cola got caught.This was not the first time Coca-Cola got caught. In August 2015, the New York Times ran a front-page story on Coca-Cola’s funding of university researchers who had created a group called the Global Energy Balance Network (GEBN). GEBN’s purpose was to convince the public — against much evidence to the contrary — that physical activity is superior to dieting (and to avoiding Coca-Cola, of course) as a means of controlling body weight. Because I was quoted in that story, reporters called me for further comment. They could hardly believe that a company as prominent as Coca-Cola would fund research so obviously self-serving, that researchers at respected universities would accept funds from Coca-Cola for this purpose, or that universities would allow faculty to do so.Coca-Cola is by no means alone in sponsoring marketing research masquerading as basic science. Here is another example. Late in 2017, the Journal of the American Heart Association published the results of a clinical trial concluding that incorporating dark chocolate and almonds in your diet may reduce your risk of coronary heart disease. I love that. But can you guess who paid for this study? The Hershey Company and the Almond Board of California were its funders. They also paid seven of the nine authors for their participation; the other two were employees of the funders.But what if the findings of such studies are true? If exercise, chocolate, and almonds are good for health, what’s wrong with funding research to prove it? This is a serious question that deserves a serious answer.Let me state for the record that financial ties with food companies are not necessarily corrupting; it is quite possible to do industry-funded research and retain independence and integrity. But food-company funding often does exert undue influence, and it invariably appears to do so. Even a hint of industry funding is all it takes to reduce trust among some segments of the public. Nutrition professionals have long recognized the reputational hazards of accepting sponsorship from food companies but for the most part have considered the benefits — in money, resources, and contacts — to be well worth the risk. From the food industry’s standpoint, “capturing” nutrition scientists and practitioners is a well-established strategy for influencing dietary advice and public policy.In public health terms, industry-induced conflicts constitute a “wicked” problem, one with no easy solution beyond not taking the money. But in the real world of nutrition research and practice, not taking the money is easier said than done, especially by those who are more dependent than I am on external funding for their research and salaries. Even so, I think it would be healthier for all of us if nutrition professionals — practitioners as well as researchers — grappled much harder with the risks and consequences of food-company sponsorship and set firm policies to minimize these problems.Editor’s Note: No Mercy/No Malice is a column from Professor Scott Galloway, where he shares various reflections on business, tech, and life each week.The middle class is an accident. From the end of WWII to the introduction of Google, we’ve found cold comfort in the delusion that wages, dictated by supply and demand, could sustain the greatest source of good in history, the American middle class. They don’t, and they won’t. Piketty is right — wealth begets more wealth, and the top tiers of income earners are pulling away. Note: I’ve read Piketty’s opus and don’t understand it, but referencing him makes me feel smart. Easier to explain with a chart:There are 274M cars in operation in the US. Assuming they have an average value of $20K, we have cars forming a $5.39T asset base. This capital infrastructure registers 5% utilization. Uber figured out software that lets any one of us with a smartphone tap into a previously fallow $5.12T asset. It’s as if your smartphone could bring the U.S. Navy into your employ. I’d like to waterski behind the Nimitz Class Carrier USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78) in the Côte d’Azur in a speedo and tassels. What app is that?Uber received proposals from investment banks that pegged the ride-hailing firm’s IPO valuation at $120B. So, that posits Uber’s value is greater than the value of the U.S. airline industry or the U.S. auto industry (excluding Tesla). I love Uber and think the firm is genius. But that valuation is insane. Uber’s model doesn’t have the moats of an auto firm or even Airbnb, which must create global demand and supply (a local competitor to Airbnb doesn’t work, as visitors from other countries wouldn’t know about it). In contrast, local on-demand taxi services abound, even if without an app. The 120K readers of my newsletter could each put in $250, and boom — we have the number-three ride-hailing firm in Miami. Who’s with me?Uber has managed to create an ecosystem that unapologetically shows us a future under bright fluorescent lighting: it’s never been better to be remarkable, nor worse to be unremarkable. Which is all good until the disturbing truth rears its head: most of us, and our children, are not remarkable.In today’s economy, innovation means elegant theft: robbery of your data, privacy, health insurance, or minimum-wage protection. Uber has 16K employees and 3M driver partners. “Driver partner” means some great things. It means you don’t have to show up to an office. And it means you can work whenever you want — this is key. When I speak to Uber drivers, I always ask, “Do you like working for Uber?” The overwhelming majority say yes and reference the flexibility. I’ve been especially struck by how many need the flexibility, as they’re taking care of someone who’s sick. So many people taking care of others. So many people loving other people. And it comes at a huge cost. Many of them used to have jobs with benefits. Many had to move to a strange place to take care of their sister, mother, nephew.Uber and several other gig economy firms have asked the Securities & Exchange Commission to review current laws that prohibit them from giving stock to contractors. “Providing equity would allow [drivers] to share in the growth of the company, which could lead to enhanced earning and savings opportunities,” Uber wrote to the SEC this month.Equity, or options on equity, would be a smart thing for these firms, as it would help cement their leadership position with a powerful retention tool financed with cheap equity. It also has the benefit of being the right thing to do. Airbus, Delta, GM, UPS — all worth less than Uber — each built and support on average 200K middle- to upper-middle-class households. Uber helps 3M households and is about to make 16K households wealthy. Note: CEO Dara Khosrowshahi stands to make $120M on the IPO. There is substantial variance, as each firm has a different ratio of stock owned by employees. However, this would likely only make the delta more stark, as Uber’s extraordinary rise means current and former employees have managed to maintain a lot of the company, which is a good thing.This feels like the right moment in history to fire up a concept from a time gone by… unions, which have been in decline since the 80s. Corporations have the full-throated support of the Trump administration, and as federal prosecutors battle on behalf of these firms, Uber drivers enjoy few of the benefits of folks like me (member, ACT-UAW Local 7902).I believe the recent volatility in stocks is the beginning of the end of the Four (Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Google) moving in sympathy with one another. Consumer trends, the macro environment, and the threat of regulation are shining more intensely on some of them for different reasons. The previous sentence was a fancy way of saying one of these things is not like the other. I was on Fox Business yesterday. One of the staff joked, “This is the safest building in the world,” referencing the increased security and progressive targets of the pipe bombs sent this week. But the mood was somber. I couldn’t discern if it was concern for their colleagues, sheer fear, or both.On the show I said Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg will be remembered as one of the most dangerous and damaging management duos in the history of business. Genius and likability coupled with an idolatry of innovators have depressed our teens, molested our elections, prematurely euthanized big firms, and performed infanticide on small ones. Big tech is net/net a positive for society. In this regard, Facebook has unconsciously uncoupled from the others. The chyron on my segment was “NYU Professor: Zuckerberg/Sandberg are lipstick on cancer.”Uber has the opportunity and momentum to consciously uncouple from some of the disturbing aspects of the gig economy and big tech. The management team distributing meaningful equity could set an example that illuminates the goodness of capitalism, while increasing loyalty and retention. Many will be tempted to find rationalizations that propagate a hoax, that shareholders come before employees or the commonwealth. Put another way, “Dara, are you just another shade of lipstick?”Back in July, I launched a pre-order campaign for my Sichuan Chili Crisp, the first 100% all-natural Sichuan chili sauce to hit the market. I wanted to bring the deep and complex flavors of China’s culinary heritage to the world using top quality ingredients, and redefine perceptions of Chinese food in the West. It became one of the highest backed food projects on Kickstarter, with over 1,600 backers helping me exceed my funding goal by 350% in four weeks. I was finally ready to scale up production of the sauces I had been making out of my kitchen.That might sound triumphant and glamorous. It was anything but. I spent most of my waking hours in August and September at a factory in rural Sichuan coordinating production and resolving the numerous issues that kept arising. No sooner were small wins gained before another obstacle appeared, threatening to teeter me over the edge of sanity.After a harrowing journey, four tonnes of sauce — 19,000 jars — were packed and palletized and set to embark on a container ship to the U.S. In the short break between when they arrive and when I start fulfillment, I thought I would share some of what I learned from my first time producing sauces on a large scale.When I first brought my formulas to the factory’s test kitchens, it surprised me — even in testing small batches using the exact same measurements — how different the results tasted compared with my homemade version. The factory was known for its research and development expertise, had stringent ingredient standards, and was much more expensive than others in the industry (read my essay on Cleaver Quarterly for tales of my previous mishaps in manufacturing in China), so I trusted that they were using the best available ingredients on the market.The ingredients they sourced were good enough for — even better than — what most of their clients demanded. But the flavor profile that made my sauce stand out had been taken away. Through a long and slow process of elimination, I tested and changed the source of almost every single ingredient in the formula to better meet my demands of the product: deep umami, fragrance, luster, texture, and mouthfeel, all without the addition of any natural or artificial flavorings and extracts.I was met with a lot of resistance from the operational team at the factory; they didn’t want to upend their existing processes just for my little chunk of business. The changes also increased my ingredient cost considerably. But since tasting the results, I haven’t looked back. The flavor differences are subtle and probably indiscernible to most, but it took the sauces from a nice-enough “Oh yes, this is really good” to eyes-bulging-out-of-sockets “What is that?!” When it’s right, you just know. These were some of the key changes:There were more ingredient changes, and I’ll share them with you if we ever sit down over a cup of tea. I knew my insistence was the right decision, though, because no other product on the market would taste like it. The version I’m shipping is even better than the original that set me down this path when I cooked it up in my kitchen two years ago, and that makes it all worth it.One of the reasons the factory was so resistant to changing suppliers was their stringent process of ingredient approval. It takes upwards of two weeks to approve a single new ingredient because the factory needs to run it through lab tests and request stacks of documentation from its supplier before allowing it in their products. Chinese law states that a manufacturer is liable for any issue with the product even if the blame lies with a third party, and the factory was not about to take a risk. Food safety scares occur enough in China (and everywhere for that matter) to warrant extra caution, as even established suppliers have sometimes sent ingredients that contained impurities.This meant my ingredient switching was a constant source of headaches for them, as well as frustration for me because I could not understand why they were so slow to implement my requests. But in the end, their slow and steady approach paid off. I know we’ve done everything we could have to eliminate potential points of risk. I’m confident we’re working only with suppliers who have the same high standards that we hold ourselves to.The labels were another painful lesson for me. I had worked with a designer I’ve adored for years to shape my logo and brand identity for Fly By Jing and at my restaurant, Baoism, in Shanghai before that. I love the bold colors and eye-catching gradients in the labels he designed for the sauces, but they proved incredibly difficult to replicate in print. I found that printers in China weren’t quite as sophisticated as the design demanded; a lot of them didn’t even know what a Pantone swatch was.Plus, I had become enamored with the label’s rare neon colors that don’t exist in standard Pantone books anyway. I think I called every printer in China in my search, and every single one suggested using digital printing instead of offset to achieve an approximation of what I was looking for rather than have them put in the time and effort to create plates, color match to exact swatches, and run tests to blend the gradients.After almost two months of running in circles, we found a printer in Hong Kong with the deep level of expertise needed to do the job. The bad news was that high-quality color printing is expensive, and — because this printer could only print in flat sheets — the stickers had to be applied by hand to each bottle instead of being fed through a machine. This added extra cost to bottling, but time was running out, so I bit the bullet and resolved to find another solution for the next run. The good news is that the labels look beautiful and are basically non-replicable — anyone who tries would have to be insane.I was lucky early on to meet an elderly executive named Mr. T who acted as the right hand of the factory boss. He understood my mission, took a liking to me, and has been my guardian angel throughout this whole process. Without him in my corner, I don’t think I could have pulled off any of this.The factory I am working with has been growing at such a rapid pace that bureaucracy and processes are beginning to threaten efficiency and timeliness. Because of the complexity of what I was doing — introducing brand new products, changing formulations, and exporting to the U.S. — I found myself running around to every department, from R&D to operations to finance and sales. As with my early days working as a brand manager at P&G, I had to corral and mobilize all the departments in order to achieve my mission, except this time, I wasn’t working on a billion-dollar brand that everyone was paid to help with. I hated not being able to take things into my own hands, especially as promises to deliver on projects regularly ballooned from days into weeks and sometimes deflated altogether.I found it hard to hide my frustration and impatience. More than a few times, Mr. T told me that my approach was too direct, too “American,” and that things just didn’t work that way in China. Things there are implied rather than said; a negotiation is more like a dance. And sometimes you need the help of a gift here and there. Mr. T had to dig me out of more than one hole and use his own social capital to help push my project through. I realized that while attuning myself to the needs and constraints of my collaborators was frustratingly slow in the short term, it would help me accomplish far more than I could ever do on my own in the long run.When I initially thought about producing my sauces at scale, the picture in my mind was of a well-oiled assembly line, an infinite snaking conveyor belt of glass jars with the perfect amount of chili crisp dispensed from magical spouts. I was going to make my riches from the millions of jars and single-serve pouches I could produce at the drop of a hat.I was brought back to reality when the factory told me there was no way either the jars or the single-serve pouches I had dreamt up could be machine-filled. I didn’t understand because so many sauces and beverages are machine-filled. Heinz has single-serve packets, so why couldn’t I? It turned out my Sichuan Chili Crisp was too chunky for the small spouts on the machines and would clog them too easily.I thought of alternatives: Maybe I could puree the contents and make it a slurry. That would work in the machines, but the distribution of flavors in each bite would be off, and the sauce would lose all its texture, the crunchy bits, the deep umami of fermented black beans- the stuff that makes it so special.Around this same time, I met someone who had taken a tour of the revered Laoganma factory in Guizhou. He told me something that shocked me: Not only is every bottle of Laoganma hand-filled, but every batch of chili sauce is fried by hand in cast-iron woks instead of industrial stainless steel drums to prevent the fermented black beans from breaking.I realized then why Laoganma has such a strong hold on the market — no other company in its right mind would invest in so much sheer unscalable manpower in the name of product integrity. The Guizhou countryside may be the only place in the world where the cheap labor and land will allow for this business model, but that is the level of dedication necessary for world domination.And if that’s what it took for the OG player in the game, that’s what it was going to take for me. Even so, this proved difficult for the one-ounce single-serve packets I’d insisted on producing, and they weren’t able to fill everything I ordered on time for this shipment. At the end of the day, though, I’m glad I didn’t compromise quality for quantity. In a time when disregard for the experience of food has become the norm and is even celebrated — I’m looking at you, Soylent, and all the sandy-textured protein bars out there — insistence on the human element in food production is more important than ever.I have been told “no” about a hundred times during this process. Factories refused to work with me. I was told my process couldn’t be scaled, that my sauces couldn’t be bottled, that my labels couldn’t be printed. It took over a year just to find a factory with legitimate documents to export to the U.S. instead of just promises to deliver through “underground” channels. Even the (very reputable) U.S. fulfillment company I had signed an agreement with suddenly and without explanation said they were no longer able to ship my orders, sending me scrambling to find a new fulfillment partner at the last minute.Every time I came back to square one, I found that there was another and better way. There is no roadmap to success when you go down a path that hasn’t been tread before. But when the vision is clear — creating and bringing the first all-natural line of authentic and deeply flavorful Chinese condiments to the U.S. market, redefining perceptions of Chinese food in the process, — you just keep trying every door until one leads you a little bit closer.In 1997, a retail entrepreneur in British Columbia named Chip Wilson was having back problems. So, like millions of people around the world, he went to a yoga class. What struck Wilson most in his first session wasn’t the poses; it was the pants…My new book, Unsavory Truth, is about how food, beverage, and supplement companies (collectively, food companies) fund nutrition researchers and practitioners and their professional associations, with the ultimate goal of promoting sales. This book appears at a time when scandals created by such funding make front-page news. Let me plunge right in with an unexpected — and highly surreal — example of why this topic should matter to all of us.You may recall that during the especially contentious U.S. presidential race of 2016, hackers linked to the Russian government stole a trove of electronic messages from Democratic Party officials and posted them on the WikiLeaks website. They also stole emails from people working on Hillary Clinton’s campaign and posted them on a new website, DCLeaks. International intrigue like this ought to seem light-years removed from food-industry funding of nutrition professionals, except for one truly bizarre coincidence: The cache on DCLeaks included messages exchanged between Capricia Marshall, an adviser to the Clinton campaign, and Michael Goltzman, a vice president at the Coca-Cola Company. While working with Clinton, Marshall was also consulting for Coca-Cola and billing the company $7,000 a month for her services.The Coca-Cola emails may have been collateral damage from Russian interference in the U.S. election, but for my research, they were a gift — not least because I turn up in them. The hacked emails included a January 2016 message from the director of an Australian agency doing public relations for Coca-Cola with notes taken at a lecture I had just presented to the Sydney chapter of the Nutrition Society of Australia. The emailed notes on my lecture — quite nicely done, actually — name some of the people attending my talk, review its content, and advise Coca-Cola to monitor my future presentations, research, and presence on social media.I vaguely remember someone telling me that a representative from Coca-Cola was at my talk, but I thought nothing of it. My 2015 book about the soft-drink industry, Soda Politics: Taking on Big Soda (and Winning), had just been published, and I assumed that someone from that industry was in the audience at every talk I gave. The stolen emails demonstrate Coca-Cola’s intense interest in the activities of individuals anywhere in the world who might question the health effects of its products.The emails also reveal this particular company’s pressures on reporters — and their editors — who write about such topics. In 2015, Candice Choi, a reporter for the Associated Press (AP), was investigating Coca-Cola’s recruitment of dietitians to promote sodas on social media. The company’s public relations staff had been working with dietitians for years to get them “to place sponsored content that promotes how our beverages can fit within a healthy, balanced diet.” Because the staff expected Choi’s article “to have a cynical, negative perspective,” they “reached out to the AP’s editors to formally register concerns about the story,” promising to “continue to urge them not to run with the story.” In this instance, the pressures did not succeed. As published, Choi’s article described the ways food companies worked “behind the scenes to cast their products in a positive light, often with the help of third parties who are seen as trusted authorities.” She quoted a company spokesman’s defense of this strategy: “We have a network of dietitians we work with… Every big brand works with bloggers or has paid talent.” Really? Thanks to the emails, we now know something about how this system works.The emails show how Coca-Cola operates to influence reporters who write about such topics. Coca-Cola staff were on a first-name basis with Mike Esterl, a reporter for the Wall Street Journal. They had learned about a study demonstrating the benefits of soda taxes and wanted to make sure that “Mike understood the source of the study and that it had not been published or peer reviewed yet.” Another message said, “FYI — please note we have been engaging Candice Choi AP reporter since April on this story and there have been numerous engagements — both verbal and written.”This same email also refers to the cozy relationship between Coca-Cola’s then–chief scientific officer, Rhona Applebaum, and university scientists conducting research funded by the company. Coca-Cola staff wrote that they had confirmation from Choi that her story would include an email exchange in which Applebaum referred to the group of university researchers she works with regularly as the “cartel” and another in which Applebaum referred to critics of Coca-Cola as “trolls.” Choi’s published article (in which I am quoted) made two points: Industry-funded research typically promotes the sponsor’s interests, and some researchers make a living doing research funded by food companies and trade associations. She noted that one such group “regularly delivered favorable conclusions for funders — or as they call them, clients.”Other messages referred to Coca-Cola’s lobbying to influence federal nutrition advice. The public relations team worried that the academic advisory committee responsible for reviewing the research for the 2015 Dietary Guidelines for Americans had proposed “eliminating sugar-sweetened beverages from schools, taxing them, and restricting advertising of foods and beverages with ‘high’ sodium or added sugars for all populations.” The public relations team suggested that the company “should be prepared for this report to be cited frequently by activists” and should “work together to balance coverage.” Coca-Cola’s director of government relations later assured colleagues that his team had been working closely with Congress and federal agencies “to ensure that policy recommendation on a soda tax is not included in the final guidelines.” These efforts succeeded; the word “tax” does not appear anywhere in the 2015 dietary guidelines.Overall, the hacked emails offer a rare glimpse into how this beverage company — simply in the normal course of doing business — attempted to influence nutritionists, nutrition research, journalists covering this research, and dietary advice to the public. Other food companies do this too when they can. The difference? Coca-Cola got caught.This was not the first time Coca-Cola got caught. In August 2015, the New York Times ran a front-page story on Coca-Cola’s funding of university researchers who had created a group called the Global Energy Balance Network (GEBN). GEBN’s purpose was to convince the public — against much evidence to the contrary — that physical activity is superior to dieting (and to avoiding Coca-Cola, of course) as a means of controlling body weight. Because I was quoted in that story, reporters called me for further comment. They could hardly believe that a company as prominent as Coca-Cola would fund research so obviously self-serving, that researchers at respected universities would accept funds from Coca-Cola for this purpose, or that universities would allow faculty to do so.Coca-Cola is by no means alone in sponsoring marketing research masquerading as basic science. Here is another example. Late in 2017, the Journal of the American Heart Association published the results of a clinical trial concluding that incorporating dark chocolate and almonds in your diet may reduce your risk of coronary heart disease. I love that. But can you guess who paid for this study? The Hershey Company and the Almond Board of California were its funders. They also paid seven of the nine authors for their participation; the other two were employees of the funders.But what if the findings of such studies are true? If exercise, chocolate, and almonds are good for health, what’s wrong with funding research to prove it? This is a serious question that deserves a serious answer.Let me state for the record that financial ties with food companies are not necessarily corrupting; it is quite possible to do industry-funded research and retain independence and integrity. But food-company funding often does exert undue influence, and it invariably appears to do so. Even a hint of industry funding is all it takes to reduce trust among some segments of the public. Nutrition professionals have long recognized the reputational hazards of accepting sponsorship from food companies but for the most part have considered the benefits — in money, resources, and contacts — to be well worth the risk. From the food industry’s standpoint, “capturing” nutrition scientists and practitioners is a well-established strategy for influencing dietary advice and public policy.In public health terms, industry-induced conflicts constitute a “wicked” problem, one with no easy solution beyond not taking the money. But in the real world of nutrition research and practice, not taking the money is easier said than done, especially by those who are more dependent than I am on external funding for their research and salaries. Even so, I think it would be healthier for all of us if nutrition professionals — practitioners as well as researchers — grappled much harder with the risks and consequences of food-company sponsorship and set firm policies to minimize these problems.I love nutrition science. On my first teaching job, I was assigned to teach a nutrition course, and it was like falling in love. To this day, I love the intellectual challenge of figuring out what we eat, why we eat what we do, and how diets affect our health. I love the complexity of food issues and the passion people bring to every one of them. But I do not love the way the food industry has added an unnecessary complication: engaging nutrition professionals in marketing objectives, sometimes against the interests of public health.My new book, Unsavory Truth, is about how food, beverage, and supplement companies (collectively, food companies) fund nutrition researchers and practitioners and their professional associations, with the ultimate goal of promoting sales. This book appears at a time when scandals created by such funding make front-page news. Let me plunge right in with an unexpected — and highly surreal — example of why this topic should matter to all of us.You may recall that during the especially contentious U.S. presidential race of 2016, hackers linked to the Russian government stole a trove of electronic messages from Democratic Party officials and posted them on the WikiLeaks website. They also stole emails from people working on Hillary Clinton’s campaign and posted them on a new website, DCLeaks. International intrigue like this ought to seem light-years removed from food-industry funding of nutrition professionals, except for one truly bizarre coincidence: The cache on DCLeaks included messages exchanged between Capricia Marshall, an adviser to the Clinton campaign, and Michael Goltzman, a vice president at the Coca-Cola Company. While working with Clinton, Marshall was also consulting for Coca-Cola and billing the company $7,000 a month for her services.The Coca-Cola emails may have been collateral damage from Russian interference in the U.S. election, but for my research, they were a gift — not least because I turn up in them. The hacked emails included a January 2016 message from the director of an Australian agency doing public relations for Coca-Cola with notes taken at a lecture I had just presented to the Sydney chapter of the Nutrition Society of Australia. The emailed notes on my lecture — quite nicely done, actually — name some of the people attending my talk, review its content, and advise Coca-Cola to monitor my future presentations, research, and presence on social media.I vaguely remember someone telling me that a representative from Coca-Cola was at my talk, but I thought nothing of it. My 2015 book about the soft-drink industry, Soda Politics: Taking on Big Soda (and Winning), had just been published, and I assumed that someone from that industry was in the audience at every talk I gave. The stolen emails demonstrate Coca-Cola’s intense interest in the activities of individuals anywhere in the world who might question the health effects of its products.The emails also reveal this particular company’s pressures on reporters — and their editors — who write about such topics. In 2015, Candice Choi, a reporter for the Associated Press (AP), was investigating Coca-Cola’s recruitment of dietitians to promote sodas on social media. The company’s public relations staff had been working with dietitians for years to get them “to place sponsored content that promotes how our beverages can fit within a healthy, balanced diet.” Because the staff expected Choi’s article “to have a cynical, negative perspective,” they “reached out to the AP’s editors to formally register concerns about the story,” promising to “continue to urge them not to run with the story.” In this instance, the pressures did not succeed. As published, Choi’s article described the ways food companies worked “behind the scenes to cast their products in a positive light, often with the help of third parties who are seen as trusted authorities.” She quoted a company spokesman’s defense of this strategy: “We have a network of dietitians we work with… Every big brand works with bloggers or has paid talent.” Really? Thanks to the emails, we now know something about how this system works.The emails show how Coca-Cola operates to influence reporters who write about such topics. Coca-Cola staff were on a first-name basis with Mike Esterl, a reporter for the Wall Street Journal. They had learned about a study demonstrating the benefits of soda taxes and wanted to make sure that “Mike understood the source of the study and that it had not been published or peer reviewed yet.” Another message said, “FYI — please note we have been engaging Candice Choi AP reporter since April on this story and there have been numerous engagements — both verbal and written.”This same email also refers to the cozy relationship between Coca-Cola’s then–chief scientific officer, Rhona Applebaum, and university scientists conducting research funded by the company. Coca-Cola staff wrote that they had confirmation from Choi that her story would include an email exchange in which Applebaum referred to the group of university researchers she works with regularly as the “cartel” and another in which Applebaum referred to critics of Coca-Cola as “trolls.” Choi’s published article (in which I am quoted) made two points: Industry-funded research typically promotes the sponsor’s interests, and some researchers make a living doing research funded by food companies and trade associations. She noted that one such group “regularly delivered favorable conclusions for funders — or as they call them, clients.”Other messages referred to Coca-Cola’s lobbying to influence federal nutrition advice. The public relations team worried that the academic advisory committee responsible for reviewing the research for the 2015 Dietary Guidelines for Americans had proposed “eliminating sugar-sweetened beverages from schools, taxing them, and restricting advertising of foods and beverages with ‘high’ sodium or added sugars for all populations.” The public relations team suggested that the company “should be prepared for this report to be cited frequently by activists” and should “work together to balance coverage.” Coca-Cola’s director of government relations later assured colleagues that his team had been working closely with Congress and federal agencies “to ensure that policy recommendation on a soda tax is not included in the final guidelines.” These efforts succeeded; the word “tax” does not appear anywhere in the 2015 dietary guidelines.Overall, the hacked emails offer a rare glimpse into how this beverage company — simply in the normal course of doing business — attempted to influence nutritionists, nutrition research, journalists covering this research, and dietary advice to the public. Other food companies do this too when they can. The difference? Coca-Cola got caught.This was not the first time Coca-Cola got caught. In August 2015, the New York Times ran a front-page story on Coca-Cola’s funding of university researchers who had created a group called the Global Energy Balance Network (GEBN). GEBN’s purpose was to convince the public — against much evidence to the contrary — that physical activity is superior to dieting (and to avoiding Coca-Cola, of course) as a means of controlling body weight. Because I was quoted in that story, reporters called me for further comment. They could hardly believe that a company as prominent as Coca-Cola would fund research so obviously self-serving, that researchers at respected universities would accept funds from Coca-Cola for this purpose, or that universities would allow faculty to do so.Coca-Cola is by no means alone in sponsoring marketing research masquerading as basic science. Here is another example. Late in 2017, the Journal of the American Heart Association published the results of a clinical trial concluding that incorporating dark chocolate and almonds in your diet may reduce your risk of coronary heart disease. I love that. But can you guess who paid for this study? The Hershey Company and the Almond Board of California were its funders. They also paid seven of the nine authors for their participation; the other two were employees of the funders.But what if the findings of such studies are true? If exercise, chocolate, and almonds are good for health, what’s wrong with funding research to prove it? This is a serious question that deserves a serious answer.Let me state for the record that financial ties with food companies are not necessarily corrupting; it is quite possible to do industry-funded research and retain independence and integrity. But food-company funding often does exert undue influence, and it invariably appears to do so. Even a hint of industry funding is all it takes to reduce trust among some segments of the public. Nutrition professionals have long recognized the reputational hazards of accepting sponsorship from food companies but for the most part have considered the benefits — in money, resources, and contacts — to be well worth the risk. From the food industry’s standpoint, “capturing” nutrition scientists and practitioners is a well-established strategy for influencing dietary advice and public policy.In public health terms, industry-induced conflicts constitute a “wicked” problem, one with no easy solution beyond not taking the money. But in the real world of nutrition research and practice, not taking the money is easier said than done, especially by those who are more dependent than I am on external funding for their research and salaries. Even so, I think it would be healthier for all of us if nutrition professionals — practitioners as well as researchers — grappled much harder with the risks and consequences of food-company sponsorship and set firm policies to minimize these problems.Until quite recently, films like 1954’s Abstract in Concrete were banned for American viewers. Although produced with U.S. tax dollars, this cinematic interpretation of the lights of Times Square was meant for European consumption only. Like the rest of the art and culture exported by the United States Information Agency, Abstract in Concrete was part of a propaganda effort to make our country look more free, open, and tolerant than many of us preceived or even wanted it to be. In the mid-1940’s, when conservative members Congress got wind of the progressive image of America we were projecting abroad, they almost cut the USIA’s funding, potentially reducing America’s global influence.Well, America today is in no danger of projecting too free, open, or tolerant a picture of itself to the world. But I’m starting to wonder if maybe the nationalist, xenophobic, inward-turned America on display to the world these days might just be the real us — the real U.S. Maybe the propaganda we created to make ourselves look like the leading proponents of global collaboration and harmony was just that: propaganda.Since the great World Wars, America has had a vested interest in fostering a certain global order. President Woodrow Wilson, who had run for president on a peace platform, ended up bringing America into World War I. When it was done, he established something called The League of Nations, which was meant to keep the peace. Thanks to an isolationist Congress, however, the United States never actually joined the League of Nations. That should have been a big hint that America’s interest in global cooperation was fleeting, at best.During World War II, Roosevelt took his shot at global harmony with his “Declaration by United Nations,” which eventually gave birth to the UN, dedicated to international peace and basic human rights around the world. To most Americans, however, the United Nations represented little more than a way of preventing the sort of war that would again require American intervention. Yes, it was in New York, and yes, it was conceived and spearheaded by Americans but this didn’t mean that America really thought of itself as part of a great international community. The UN was really just a way for us to avoid having to go “over there” again.This was surprising to me. I grew up in the 1970s, at the height of America’s cultural outreach to Europe and the world. I remember how great Russian artists and ballet dancers would come to New York, and how American artists and writers would go to Europe. There were exchange students in my high school from Italy, France, and Germany. The outside world — the international society of musicians, writers, thinkers that America was fostering— seemed more artistic, cultural, and tolerant than what I knew here, at home. It seemed like the future.This was by design, and part of a propaganda effort that began in the 1940's. Once the USSR and the U.S. divided Europe into East and West and the Cold War began, America went on a propaganda effort to present itself as more enlightened and free than the communists. The State Department, the CIA, and the United States Information Agency, as well as an assortment of foundations from Rockefeller’s to Fulbright’s, all dedicated themselves to painting a positive picture of America abroad. This was big money; by the late 1950’s the USIA alone spent over $2 billion of public money a year on newsreels, radio broadcasts, journalism, and international appearances and exhibitions. This included everything from Paris Review articles to Dizzy Gillespie concerts.The problem was that the image of America that these agencies projected to the world wasn’t the image many Americans had of their country. Information agencies were busy trying to make us look like an open and free society, as sophisticated and cosmopolitan as any European one. So, abstract art exhibits and films, book collections with modernist novels, intellectuals, people of color, modern dancers, and all sorts of avant-garde culture was sent for consumption abroad.Conservative Americans, as well as the senators who represented them, saw this stuff as gay, communist, Jewish, urban, effete, and an altogether terrible misrepresentation of who we were and what we stood for. Why, they asked, should we be spending upwards of two billion dollars exporting decadent, self-indulgent art and culture to the world?So Congress — convinced that there was still a national security advantage, or at least a business justification, in maintaining American global outreach — passed a compromise called the Smith-Mundt Act in 1948. The law made it illegal for the USIA to release any of its propaganda within the United States. Ostensibly, this was to protect Americans from the potentially manipulative propaganda it was spreading abroad. Information is a form of PSYOPS (psychological operations), after all, and we are not going to use such weapons on our own people.But the real reason for the Smith-Mundt act was to prevent Americans from seeing themselves represented in ways that they didn’t agree with. The books in the traveling library were titles that many Americans thought would be better burned than celebrated. And the overall ethos of the program — to promote America’s internationalism and free society — were in direct contradiction to the values that many Americans held. The Smith-Mundt act created a wall between the image of America we exported to the world, and the one we maintained about ourselves.By the time the Internet emerged, this division became impossible to keep up. YouTube, the Internet Archive, and Facebook bring everything to everyone. So in 2012, Smith-Mundt was repealed. Concerned netizens saw a conspiracy. Did this mean the government would now be free to use its psychological warfare on U.S. citizens? Perhaps. But the real intent was to relieve the government’s communications agencies from trying to hide their messaging from Americans in an age when hiding such programming is impossible.But now that Americans are becoming more aware of America’s internationalist activities and sentiments, many are horrified and calling for retreat. This is the province of George Soros, the Rothschilds, and the Zionist conspiracy — not the good old U.S. of A. I wonder: was the Smith-Mundt Act hiding an internationalist and open-minded America from the few Americans who weren’t ready for it? Or was it simply hiding the nationalist and backwards-thinking America from the world? For all our efforts at telling Europe otherwise, maybe we are not really the modern society we self-styled proponents of public diplomacy like to think we are.The measure of a civilization’s advancement is its capacity to insulate its people from the cruelty of nature. Right now, Americans don’t seem to be dedicated to that principle. Civilizations build public roads, baths, aqueducts, and later transportation, healthcare, and education into the fabric of society, as givens. Instead of seeing the poor as deserving of discomfort, civilizations see all human beings as deserving of essential human dignity. The more a civilization can spread these basic human rights and freedoms through the world, the more advanced the civilization.However, this particular understanding of modernity and enlightenment is not universal. Instead of breaking down boundaries and building an international society, America’s current stated goal is to reject globalism, build walls, and treat other nations as business competitors. The America we were once hiding behind billion-dollar international culture campaigns is now the America we are broadcasting to the world. Instead of compensating for our American-made missiles with progressive art and media, now we are justifying their sale and use with America-first rhetoric.America’s best hope for cross-border connection, identification, and intimacy is its people. This means you and me, sharing our beliefs, aspirations, culture, and compassion with as much of the world as possible. Just as conservatives fought against the export of an America they didn’t agree with is, it’s the progressives’ turn to speak on behalf of the connected and collaborative world we still hope for — even if we aren’t fit to be its leader, anymore.Two things make Neighbors different than similar services like Nextdoor. First is the exclusive focus on crime. Neighbors prohibits posts that aren’t about crime and safety, which means that if you have nothing suspicious to post about, you’re not welcome to post at all. Second is the direct connection Neighbors forges with police. Not only will you and your neighbors be watching your streets through the app — so will the cops. Police departments can join Neighbors, view publicly uploaded videos, and request additional data from Ring for areas “where an incident may have occurred.” Just like traditional neighborhood watch programs, Neighbors will give cops extra eyes on the streets, but instead of reports from block captains, police will get video streams uploaded by the community.Sure, no one wants to feel unsafe walking down the street or in their own home. In theory, introducing a simple, app-based way for individuals to engage in the most well-known crime prevention program in the country seems reasonable. But no one is sure if neighborhood watch programs actually work.Studies on neighborhood watch are rare, and the data indicates that while some communities with neighborhood watch programs experience a drop in crime, others actually see crime spike. Most see little change at all.What is clear is that neighborhood watch is great at violating people’s civil rights, encouraging racial profiling, and annoying neighbors. And these problems are only poised to get worse as high-tech peer-to-peer surveillance increases.Many trace the origin of widespread neighborhood watch programs to the murder of Kitty Genovese in 1964. Genovese was on her way home from work when Walter Mosely stabbed her in the back and dragged her inside, where he attempted to rape her. Eventually, she bled to death. Two weeks later, the New York Times reported that 37 of Genovese’s neighbors had watched the attack and failed to call the police.The reported callousness of Genovese’s neighbors ignited fury across the country, and officials lamented everyone’s apparent disinterest in the safety of their neighbors. Academics coined the term “bystander apathy.”Of course, the details regarding the bystanders to Kitty Genovese’s death turned out to be mostly inaccurate. The Times itself would report, decades later, that “the article grossly exaggerated the number of witnesses and what they had perceived.” Regardless, her murder changed the way Americans view their responsibilities in their neighborhoods — and their connection to the police.Officials wasted little time harnessing the outrage over bystander apathy and implemented the program of quasi–law enforcement groups that would become known as neighborhood watch. Several volunteer groups arose in the early 1970s, from a group in New York who were trained to give eyewitness accounts of crime to an official Neighborhood Watch program developed by the National Sheriffs’ Association (NSA) designed to quickly disseminate information from the police to the community and promote civic engagement.The NSA program was based mainly on controversial research that came out of the Chicago School of Sociology, which advanced the theory that “social disorganization,” or the lack of social control in society, is what leads to crime. Similar to the ideas promoted by “broken windows” policing, the Chicago School thought that cracking down on smaller-scale crimes, with the help of concerned neighbors, could help prevent more serious criminal activity.The general idea with neighborhood watch programs is that citizens can act as extra “eyes and ears” in the community and report crime and suspicious behavior to the police. These programs grew without fanfare for much of the 1980s and ’90s. Police and communities touted the benefits of neighborhood watch, but actual studies were scant and their conclusions unpersuasive. Nonetheless, communities and police continued to start new programs throughout the country until neighborhood watch became the most well-known crime prevention program in the United States.As neighborhood watch programs grew in popularity, so did surveillance technology. CCTV, the first widely used video surveillance tool, gained widespread popularity in the 1980s and ’90s. The video systems allowed cops to magnify their surveillance by feeding video from several different CCTV cameras directly to a bank of monitors overseen by a single person. Business owners and even private citizens enthusiastically installed CCTV systems in the name of crime prevention and personal safety.CCTV — which seems quaint compared to a network of smart doorbells that are technically controlled by a massive e-commerce corporation — was met with harsh backlash from privacy experts, who called it a violation of civil liberties. CCTV owners weren’t concerned. Not yet armed with Wi-Fi and smartphones, they shared their home security bloopers the old-school way: on America’s Funniest Home Videos. It’s a phenomenon continued by Ring, which regularly promotes funny doorbell videos.This turn toward technology-augmented surveillance also provided ample opportunity for government abuse. At the same time that neighbors began to watch each other in the name of public safety, CCTV cameras began to appear, watching us at the bank, the courthouse, and the store. CCTV cameras were installed first by police to monitor select areas, and then increasingly permeated all aspects of the public square.As policing and technology changed, our prison populations boomed, with changes in drug and sentencing policies mandating more and longer sentences. Along with heightened arrest numbers and longer prison sentences, police saw neighborhood watch as an integral part of a war on crime that disproportionately targeted people of color. While white neighborhoods started neighborhood watch programs, black neighborhoods were decimated by overpolicing and incarceration.After 9/11, personal safety and security took on a new urgency. In 2002, the National Sheriffs’ Association joined with the Department of Justice to pivot its program toward national security. Together, they rebranded Neighborhood Watch as USA on Watch, and communities were encouraged to “become active in homeland security” and to “fight against terrorism.” The terrorism-fighting mechanism was mostly limited to encouraging disaster preparedness among neighbors, but the insider/outsider dichotomy present in Neighborhood Watch programs took on new meaning as Islamophobia ran rampant in the wake of the terrorist attacks.Communities, now believing they were responsible for the security of the entire country, began closely surveilling their black and brown neighbors in the name of homeland security and engaged in hate-based violence in the name of retribution for 9/11. The FBI and NYPD took things further, putting entire communities under surveillance for years, using license plate readers and tapping the phones of blocks upon blocks of New Yorkers who lived in predominantly Arab communities.Although it is not clear why, the Department of Justice eventually pulled funding from the USA on Watch program and reverted to its original moniker under the umbrella of the National Sheriffs’ Association. The shift back to the less exciting, nonterrorism-related activities of the average neighborhood watch, however, did not stem the racism that seems to have seeped into most initiatives.While some neighborhood watch programs do nothing more than host monthly police-liaison community meetings, others have adopted the idea and title of neighborhood watch to patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, looking for undocumented migrants, or to stalk the streets on behalf of the KKK, presumably looking for nonwhite residents out after dark. Many of these groups invest heavily in police and military-grade gear, from mobile command centers to high-tech surveillance gadgets.Some of the problems endemic to neighborhood watch groups were thrust front and center in 2012, when neighborhood watch block captain George Zimmerman shot and killed Trayvon Martin in a Florida subdivision. The resulting trial revealed that Zimmerman frequently called the cops to report black men in the neighborhood as part of his neighborhood watch duties. He was eventually found not guilty, and a large part of his defense relied on his role as a protector of the neighborhood.While the Zimmerman trial was happening, neighborhood watch groups were slowly making their way online with the advent of Nextdoor.com, which launched in 2011. Nextdoor was one of the first major websites to actively solicit and distribute crime and safety information to neighborhood users alongside other neighborhood-related content. After a few relatively innocent years of posts about local plumbers and crowdsourced restaurant recommendations, Nextdoor developed a problem: rampant racial profiling. Posts regarding “suspicious” people of color walking down the road, riding their bike, or otherwise existing in public infiltrated the site. White users complained about people of color in their neighborhoods and described suspected perpetrators of crime in unhelpful and racist terms.Nextdoor initially blamed the problem on racist users, but the company eventually set up systems to nudge members away from posting racist content by requiring posters to describe more than the race or ethnicity of suspected wrongdoers. Nextdoor’s solutions were both lauded as innovative and criticized for not doing enough, but no one seemed to question the underlying rationale for peer-to-peer policing in the first place.In fact, Nextdoor’s successes set the stage for other tech companies to enter the market of nosy neighbors. Canary, a home camera system, allows you to sound an alarm or call the police directly from the app’s interface should you detect an intruder while staring at a video stream of your living room. SimpliSafe, a cloud-based home security system that promises to deter criminals from entering your home and promptly reports any alarms or disturbances to the police, had revenue of $38.5 million in 2013, up from $1.4 million in 2010. In 2018, a private equity and venture firm took control of SimpliSafe in a deal that valued it at around $1 billion.Flock Safety, a Georgia-based security startup, wants to bypass individuals entirely. Flock cameras, which cost $1,500 per year, are “designed to solve crime” by reading and tracking the license plates on cars driving through the neighborhood, storing video footage, and using “advanced machine learning” to turn video footage into the “key images needed to make an arrest.” Ring has built something of a cult following around videos captured through its motion-sensing video doorbells, which the company encourages users to share on the Ring app and social media.Neighbors is the logical next step — a place where video clips from your doorbells and security cameras are cannibalized into content for neighbors to scroll through and police to analyze. But Neighbors is also a glimpse into what seems like an inevitable future where neighborhood streets become a high-tech panopticon and neighbors spy on neighbors.Tech companies are successfully convincing us that personal and public safety mandates a reduction in privacy and that policing our neighbors is the mark of a good citizen. But the decades of American jurisprudence about privacy are not merely the stuff of academic debate: They are a stark record of the abuses that arise when the state has unlimited access to the particulars of our lives. As use of private surveillance and high-tech neighborhood watch initiatives expand, we will have to grapple with what exactly we are willing to sacrifice in the name of safety. Because it isn’t just your neighbors the state wants to see from your video doorbell—it’s also you.Update: Following the publication of this story, a Ring representative emailed the following statement:Ring, an Amazon-owned smart doorbell company, wants to help you and your neighbors gossip about “suspicious activity” on your street with a standalone app called Neighbors. The app, which was introduced in May, encourages people to bring the surveillance state home by uploading video clips and publishing reports about neighborhood activities, which are then broadcast to other users and participating police departments.Ring markets Neighbors as a modern version of an old-school neighborhood watch program, encouraging communities to band together to protect one another and combat crime. In a commercial for Neighbors, a pair of greasy would-be package thieves are deterred from their crime after realizing video of them is being broadcast throughout the neighborhood. No cops are called, but a man walking his beagle, who has been alerted to their presence through the Neighbors app, watches the thwarted thieves drive their clunker out of the neighborhood, crime averted.Two things make Neighbors different than similar services like Nextdoor. First is the exclusive focus on crime. Neighbors prohibits posts that aren’t about crime and safety, which means that if you have nothing suspicious to post about, you’re not welcome to post at all. Second is the direct connection Neighbors forges with police. Not only will you and your neighbors be watching your streets through the app — so will the cops. Police departments can join Neighbors, view publicly uploaded videos, and request additional data from Ring for areas “where an incident may have occurred.” Just like traditional neighborhood watch programs, Neighbors will give cops extra eyes on the streets, but instead of reports from block captains, police will get video streams uploaded by the community.Sure, no one wants to feel unsafe walking down the street or in their own home. In theory, introducing a simple, app-based way for individuals to engage in the most well-known crime prevention program in the country seems reasonable. But no one is sure if neighborhood watch programs actually work.Studies on neighborhood watch are rare, and the data indicates that while some communities with neighborhood watch programs experience a drop in crime, others actually see crime spike. Most see little change at all.What is clear is that neighborhood watch is great at violating people’s civil rights, encouraging racial profiling, and annoying neighbors. And these problems are only poised to get worse as high-tech peer-to-peer surveillance increases.Many trace the origin of widespread neighborhood watch programs to the murder of Kitty Genovese in 1964. Genovese was on her way home from work when Walter Mosely stabbed her in the back and dragged her inside, where he attempted to rape her. Eventually, she bled to death. Two weeks later, the New York Times reported that 37 of Genovese’s neighbors had watched the attack and failed to call the police.The reported callousness of Genovese’s neighbors ignited fury across the country, and officials lamented everyone’s apparent disinterest in the safety of their neighbors. Academics coined the term “bystander apathy.”Of course, the details regarding the bystanders to Kitty Genovese’s death turned out to be mostly inaccurate. The Times itself would report, decades later, that “the article grossly exaggerated the number of witnesses and what they had perceived.” Regardless, her murder changed the way Americans view their responsibilities in their neighborhoods — and their connection to the police.Officials wasted little time harnessing the outrage over bystander apathy and implemented the program of quasi–law enforcement groups that would become known as neighborhood watch. Several volunteer groups arose in the early 1970s, from a group in New York who were trained to give eyewitness accounts of crime to an official Neighborhood Watch program developed by the National Sheriffs’ Association (NSA) designed to quickly disseminate information from the police to the community and promote civic engagement.The NSA program was based mainly on controversial research that came out of the Chicago School of Sociology, which advanced the theory that “social disorganization,” or the lack of social control in society, is what leads to crime. Similar to the ideas promoted by “broken windows” policing, the Chicago School thought that cracking down on smaller-scale crimes, with the help of concerned neighbors, could help prevent more serious criminal activity.The general idea with neighborhood watch programs is that citizens can act as extra “eyes and ears” in the community and report crime and suspicious behavior to the police. These programs grew without fanfare for much of the 1980s and ’90s. Police and communities touted the benefits of neighborhood watch, but actual studies were scant and their conclusions unpersuasive. Nonetheless, communities and police continued to start new programs throughout the country until neighborhood watch became the most well-known crime prevention program in the United States.As neighborhood watch programs grew in popularity, so did surveillance technology. CCTV, the first widely used video surveillance tool, gained widespread popularity in the 1980s and ’90s. The video systems allowed cops to magnify their surveillance by feeding video from several different CCTV cameras directly to a bank of monitors overseen by a single person. Business owners and even private citizens enthusiastically installed CCTV systems in the name of crime prevention and personal safety.CCTV — which seems quaint compared to a network of smart doorbells that are technically controlled by a massive e-commerce corporation — was met with harsh backlash from privacy experts, who called it a violation of civil liberties. CCTV owners weren’t concerned. Not yet armed with Wi-Fi and smartphones, they shared their home security bloopers the old-school way: on America’s Funniest Home Videos. It’s a phenomenon continued by Ring, which regularly promotes funny doorbell videos.This turn toward technology-augmented surveillance also provided ample opportunity for government abuse. At the same time that neighbors began to watch each other in the name of public safety, CCTV cameras began to appear, watching us at the bank, the courthouse, and the store. CCTV cameras were installed first by police to monitor select areas, and then increasingly permeated all aspects of the public square.As policing and technology changed, our prison populations boomed, with changes in drug and sentencing policies mandating more and longer sentences. Along with heightened arrest numbers and longer prison sentences, police saw neighborhood watch as an integral part of a war on crime that disproportionately targeted people of color. While white neighborhoods started neighborhood watch programs, black neighborhoods were decimated by overpolicing and incarceration.After 9/11, personal safety and security took on a new urgency. In 2002, the National Sheriffs’ Association joined with the Department of Justice to pivot its program toward national security. Together, they rebranded Neighborhood Watch as USA on Watch, and communities were encouraged to “become active in homeland security” and to “fight against terrorism.” The terrorism-fighting mechanism was mostly limited to encouraging disaster preparedness among neighbors, but the insider/outsider dichotomy present in Neighborhood Watch programs took on new meaning as Islamophobia ran rampant in the wake of the terrorist attacks.Communities, now believing they were responsible for the security of the entire country, began closely surveilling their black and brown neighbors in the name of homeland security and engaged in hate-based violence in the name of retribution for 9/11. The FBI and NYPD took things further, putting entire communities under surveillance for years, using license plate readers and tapping the phones of blocks upon blocks of New Yorkers who lived in predominantly Arab communities.Although it is not clear why, the Department of Justice eventually pulled funding from the USA on Watch program and reverted to its original moniker under the umbrella of the National Sheriffs’ Association. The shift back to the less exciting, nonterrorism-related activities of the average neighborhood watch, however, did not stem the racism that seems to have seeped into most initiatives.While some neighborhood watch programs do nothing more than host monthly police-liaison community meetings, others have adopted the idea and title of neighborhood watch to patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, looking for undocumented migrants, or to stalk the streets on behalf of the KKK, presumably looking for nonwhite residents out after dark. Many of these groups invest heavily in police and military-grade gear, from mobile command centers to high-tech surveillance gadgets.Some of the problems endemic to neighborhood watch groups were thrust front and center in 2012, when neighborhood watch block captain George Zimmerman shot and killed Trayvon Martin in a Florida subdivision. The resulting trial revealed that Zimmerman frequently called the cops to report black men in the neighborhood as part of his neighborhood watch duties. He was eventually found not guilty, and a large part of his defense relied on his role as a protector of the neighborhood.While the Zimmerman trial was happening, neighborhood watch groups were slowly making their way online with the advent of Nextdoor.com, which launched in 2011. Nextdoor was one of the first major websites to actively solicit and distribute crime and safety information to neighborhood users alongside other neighborhood-related content. After a few relatively innocent years of posts about local plumbers and crowdsourced restaurant recommendations, Nextdoor developed a problem: rampant racial profiling. Posts regarding “suspicious” people of color walking down the road, riding their bike, or otherwise existing in public infiltrated the site. White users complained about people of color in their neighborhoods and described suspected perpetrators of crime in unhelpful and racist terms.Nextdoor initially blamed the problem on racist users, but the company eventually set up systems to nudge members away from posting racist content by requiring posters to describe more than the race or ethnicity of suspected wrongdoers. Nextdoor’s solutions were both lauded as innovative and criticized for not doing enough, but no one seemed to question the underlying rationale for peer-to-peer policing in the first place.In fact, Nextdoor’s successes set the stage for other tech companies to enter the market of nosy neighbors. Canary, a home camera system, allows you to sound an alarm or call the police directly from the app’s interface should you detect an intruder while staring at a video stream of your living room. SimpliSafe, a cloud-based home security system that promises to deter criminals from entering your home and promptly reports any alarms or disturbances to the police, had revenue of $38.5 million in 2013, up from $1.4 million in 2010. In 2018, a private equity and venture firm took control of SimpliSafe in a deal that valued it at around $1 billion.Flock Safety, a Georgia-based security startup, wants to bypass individuals entirely. Flock cameras, which cost $1,500 per year, are “designed to solve crime” by reading and tracking the license plates on cars driving through the neighborhood, storing video footage, and using “advanced machine learning” to turn video footage into the “key images needed to make an arrest.” Ring has built something of a cult following around videos captured through its motion-sensing video doorbells, which the company encourages users to share on the Ring app and social media.Neighbors is the logical next step — a place where video clips from your doorbells and security cameras are cannibalized into content for neighbors to scroll through and police to analyze. But Neighbors is also a glimpse into what seems like an inevitable future where neighborhood streets become a high-tech panopticon and neighbors spy on neighbors.Tech companies are successfully convincing us that personal and public safety mandates a reduction in privacy and that policing our neighbors is the mark of a good citizen. But the decades of American jurisprudence about privacy are not merely the stuff of academic debate: They are a stark record of the abuses that arise when the state has unlimited access to the particulars of our lives. As use of private surveillance and high-tech neighborhood watch initiatives expand, we will have to grapple with what exactly we are willing to sacrifice in the name of safety. Because it isn’t just your neighbors the state wants to see from your video doorbell—it’s also you.Update: Following the publication of this story, a Ring representative emailed the following statement:Ring, an Amazon-owned smart doorbell company, wants to help you and your neighbors gossip about “suspicious activity” on your street with a standalone app called Neighbors. The app, which was introduced in May, encourages people to bring the surveillance state home by uploading video clips and publishing reports about neighborhood activities, which are then broadcast to other users and participating police departments.Ring markets Neighbors as a modern version of an old-school neighborhood watch program, encouraging communities to band together to protect one another and combat crime. In a commercial for Neighbors, a pair of greasy would-be package thieves are deterred from their crime after realizing video of them is being broadcast throughout the neighborhood. No cops are called, but a man walking his beagle, who has been alerted to their presence through the Neighbors app, watches the thwarted thieves drive their clunker out of the neighborhood, crime averted.Two things make Neighbors different than similar services like Nextdoor. First is the exclusive focus on crime. Neighbors prohibits posts that aren’t about crime and safety, which means that if you have nothing suspicious to post about, you’re not welcome to post at all. Second is the direct connection Neighbors forges with police. Not only will you and your neighbors be watching your streets through the app — so will the cops. Police departments can join Neighbors, view publicly uploaded videos, and request additional data from Ring for areas “where an incident may have occurred.” Just like traditional neighborhood watch programs, Neighbors will give cops extra eyes on the streets, but instead of reports from block captains, police will get video streams uploaded by the community.Sure, no one wants to feel unsafe walking down the street or in their own home. In theory, introducing a simple, app-based way for individuals to engage in the most well-known crime prevention program in the country seems reasonable. But no one is sure if neighborhood watch programs actually work.Studies on neighborhood watch are rare, and the data indicates that while some communities with neighborhood watch programs experience a drop in crime, others actually see crime spike. Most see little change at all.What is clear is that neighborhood watch is great at violating people’s civil rights, encouraging racial profiling, and annoying neighbors. And these problems are only poised to get worse as high-tech peer-to-peer surveillance increases.Many trace the origin of widespread neighborhood watch programs to the murder of Kitty Genovese in 1964. Genovese was on her way home from work when Walter Mosely stabbed her in the back and dragged her inside, where he attempted to rape her. Eventually, she bled to death. Two weeks later, the New York Times reported that 37 of Genovese’s neighbors had watched the attack and failed to call the police.The reported callousness of Genovese’s neighbors ignited fury across the country, and officials lamented everyone’s apparent disinterest in the safety of their neighbors. Academics coined the term “bystander apathy.”Of course, the details regarding the bystanders to Kitty Genovese’s death turned out to be mostly inaccurate. The Times itself would report, decades later, that “the article grossly exaggerated the number of witnesses and what they had perceived.” Regardless, her murder changed the way Americans view their responsibilities in their neighborhoods — and their connection to the police.Officials wasted little time harnessing the outrage over bystander apathy and implemented the program of quasi–law enforcement groups that would become known as neighborhood watch. Several volunteer groups arose in the early 1970s, from a group in New York who were trained to give eyewitness accounts of crime to an official Neighborhood Watch program developed by the National Sheriffs’ Association (NSA) designed to quickly disseminate information from the police to the community and promote civic engagement.The NSA program was based mainly on controversial research that came out of the Chicago School of Sociology, which advanced the theory that “social disorganization,” or the lack of social control in society, is what leads to crime. Similar to the ideas promoted by “broken windows” policing, the Chicago School thought that cracking down on smaller-scale crimes, with the help of concerned neighbors, could help prevent more serious criminal activity.The general idea with neighborhood watch programs is that citizens can act as extra “eyes and ears” in the community and report crime and suspicious behavior to the police. These programs grew without fanfare for much of the 1980s and ’90s. Police and communities touted the benefits of neighborhood watch, but actual studies were scant and their conclusions unpersuasive. Nonetheless, communities and police continued to start new programs throughout the country until neighborhood watch became the most well-known crime prevention program in the United States.As neighborhood watch programs grew in popularity, so did surveillance technology. CCTV, the first widely used video surveillance tool, gained widespread popularity in the 1980s and ’90s. The video systems allowed cops to magnify their surveillance by feeding video from several different CCTV cameras directly to a bank of monitors overseen by a single person. Business owners and even private citizens enthusiastically installed CCTV systems in the name of crime prevention and personal safety.CCTV — which seems quaint compared to a network of smart doorbells that are technically controlled by a massive e-commerce corporation — was met with harsh backlash from privacy experts, who called it a violation of civil liberties. CCTV owners weren’t concerned. Not yet armed with Wi-Fi and smartphones, they shared their home security bloopers the old-school way: on America’s Funniest Home Videos. It’s a phenomenon continued by Ring, which regularly promotes funny doorbell videos.This turn toward technology-augmented surveillance also provided ample opportunity for government abuse. At the same time that neighbors began to watch each other in the name of public safety, CCTV cameras began to appear, watching us at the bank, the courthouse, and the store. CCTV cameras were installed first by police to monitor select areas, and then increasingly permeated all aspects of the public square.As policing and technology changed, our prison populations boomed, with changes in drug and sentencing policies mandating more and longer sentences. Along with heightened arrest numbers and longer prison sentences, police saw neighborhood watch as an integral part of a war on crime that disproportionately targeted people of color. While white neighborhoods started neighborhood watch programs, black neighborhoods were decimated by overpolicing and incarceration.After 9/11, personal safety and security took on a new urgency. In 2002, the National Sheriffs’ Association joined with the Department of Justice to pivot its program toward national security. Together, they rebranded Neighborhood Watch as USA on Watch, and communities were encouraged to “become active in homeland security” and to “fight against terrorism.” The terrorism-fighting mechanism was mostly limited to encouraging disaster preparedness among neighbors, but the insider/outsider dichotomy present in Neighborhood Watch programs took on new meaning as Islamophobia ran rampant in the wake of the terrorist attacks.Communities, now believing they were responsible for the security of the entire country, began closely surveilling their black and brown neighbors in the name of homeland security and engaged in hate-based violence in the name of retribution for 9/11. The FBI and NYPD took things further, putting entire communities under surveillance for years, using license plate readers and tapping the phones of blocks upon blocks of New Yorkers who lived in predominantly Arab communities.Although it is not clear why, the Department of Justice eventually pulled funding from the USA on Watch program and reverted to its original moniker under the umbrella of the National Sheriffs’ Association. The shift back to the less exciting, nonterrorism-related activities of the average neighborhood watch, however, did not stem the racism that seems to have seeped into most initiatives.While some neighborhood watch programs do nothing more than host monthly police-liaison community meetings, others have adopted the idea and title of neighborhood watch to patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, looking for undocumented migrants, or to stalk the streets on behalf of the KKK, presumably looking for nonwhite residents out after dark. Many of these groups invest heavily in police and military-grade gear, from mobile command centers to high-tech surveillance gadgets.Some of the problems endemic to neighborhood watch groups were thrust front and center in 2012, when neighborhood watch block captain George Zimmerman shot and killed Trayvon Martin in a Florida subdivision. The resulting trial revealed that Zimmerman frequently called the cops to report black men in the neighborhood as part of his neighborhood watch duties. He was eventually found not guilty, and a large part of his defense relied on his role as a protector of the neighborhood.While the Zimmerman trial was happening, neighborhood watch groups were slowly making their way online with the advent of Nextdoor.com, which launched in 2011. Nextdoor was one of the first major websites to actively solicit and distribute crime and safety information to neighborhood users alongside other neighborhood-related content. After a few relatively innocent years of posts about local plumbers and crowdsourced restaurant recommendations, Nextdoor developed a problem: rampant racial profiling. Posts regarding “suspicious” people of color walking down the road, riding their bike, or otherwise existing in public infiltrated the site. White users complained about people of color in their neighborhoods and described suspected perpetrators of crime in unhelpful and racist terms.Nextdoor initially blamed the problem on racist users, but the company eventually set up systems to nudge members away from posting racist content by requiring posters to describe more than the race or ethnicity of suspected wrongdoers. Nextdoor’s solutions were both lauded as innovative and criticized for not doing enough, but no one seemed to question the underlying rationale for peer-to-peer policing in the first place.In fact, Nextdoor’s successes set the stage for other tech companies to enter the market of nosy neighbors. Canary, a home camera system, allows you to sound an alarm or call the police directly from the app’s interface should you detect an intruder while staring at a video stream of your living room. SimpliSafe, a cloud-based home security system that promises to deter criminals from entering your home and promptly reports any alarms or disturbances to the police, had revenue of $38.5 million in 2013, up from $1.4 million in 2010. In 2018, a private equity and venture firm took control of SimpliSafe in a deal that valued it at around $1 billion.Flock Safety, a Georgia-based security startup, wants to bypass individuals entirely. Flock cameras, which cost $1,500 per year, are “designed to solve crime” by reading and tracking the license plates on cars driving through the neighborhood, storing video footage, and using “advanced machine learning” to turn video footage into the “key images needed to make an arrest.” Ring has built something of a cult following around videos captured through its motion-sensing video doorbells, which the company encourages users to share on the Ring app and social media.Neighbors is the logical next step — a place where video clips from your doorbells and security cameras are cannibalized into content for neighbors to scroll through and police to analyze. But Neighbors is also a glimpse into what seems like an inevitable future where neighborhood streets become a high-tech panopticon and neighbors spy on neighbors.Tech companies are successfully convincing us that personal and public safety mandates a reduction in privacy and that policing our neighbors is the mark of a good citizen. But the decades of American jurisprudence about privacy are not merely the stuff of academic debate: They are a stark record of the abuses that arise when the state has unlimited access to the particulars of our lives. As use of private surveillance and high-tech neighborhood watch initiatives expand, we will have to grapple with what exactly we are willing to sacrifice in the name of safety. Because it isn’t just your neighbors the state wants to see from your video doorbell—it’s also you.Update: Following the publication of this story, a Ring representative emailed the following statement:Ring, an Amazon-owned smart doorbell company, wants to help you and your neighbors gossip about “suspicious activity” on your street with a standalone app called Neighbors. The app, which was introduced in May, encourages people to bring the surveillance state home by uploading video clips and publishing reports about neighborhood activities, which are then broadcast to other users and participating police departments.Ring markets Neighbors as a modern version of an old-school neighborhood watch program, encouraging communities to band together to protect one another and combat crime. In a commercial for Neighbors, a pair of greasy would-be package thieves are deterred from their crime after realizing video of them is being broadcast throughout the neighborhood. No cops are called, but a man walking his beagle, who has been alerted to their presence through the Neighbors app, watches the thwarted thieves drive their clunker out of the neighborhood, crime averted.Two things make Neighbors different than similar services like Nextdoor. First is the exclusive focus on crime. Neighbors prohibits posts that aren’t about crime and safety, which means that if you have nothing suspicious to post about, you’re not welcome to post at all. Second is the direct connection Neighbors forges with police. Not only will you and your neighbors be watching your streets through the app — so will the cops. Police departments can join Neighbors, view publicly uploaded videos, and request additional data from Ring for areas “where an incident may have occurred.” Just like traditional neighborhood watch programs, Neighbors will give cops extra eyes on the streets, but instead of reports from block captains, police will get video streams uploaded by the community.Sure, no one wants to feel unsafe walking down the street or in their own home. In theory, introducing a simple, app-based way for individuals to engage in the most well-known crime prevention program in the country seems reasonable. But no one is sure if neighborhood watch programs actually work.The Affordable Care Act took that approach. Rather than trying to replace ESHI, the ACA made having health insurance mandatory for employers with 50 or more workers. Yet serious health economists tell us that ESHI is “broke” after all. In fact, they say it is so profoundly dysfunctional that it deserves to be called the “original sin” of the U.S. health care system.ESHI’s biggest problems come down to three things: job lock, which reduces labor mobility of beneficiaries; the fundamental inequity in how benefits disproportionately go to the highest-paid workers; and the increased fragmentation of health care finance that comes from a system administered by thousands of separate employers.This term describes the tendency of employer-sponsored health insurance to discourage people from changing jobs, starting their own businesses, or cutting their hours (usually either to care for family members or move toward retirement). Job lock undermines labor market mobility, makes it harder to match workers to the most suitable jobs, and cuts labor productivity.Almost everyone seems to know at least one friend or relative who has taken a job that wasn’t great for them—or not left such a job—simply because it was the only way for them to get health coverage. A recent New York Times op-ed by former reporter Kurt Eichenwald dives into this experience. Eichenwald has a severe form of epilepsy, and the medication alone costs $50,000 a year. He vividly details 40 years of struggles to secure and keep health insurance. Small employers refused to hire him because he would send the company premium through the roof; he had frightening gaps in coverage and had to appeal to his parents to cover costly emergency room visits; and he recounts the humiliation of having to beg for an entry-level job far below his qualifications just to maintain coverage.Eichenwald’s situation is by no means rare. In the survey cited above, 46 percent of respondents listed health benefits as an important factor in deciding to work for their current employer. That includes 9 percent who reported health coverage was the decisive factor in taking the job. An even greater proportion, 56 percent, said that health insurance affected their decision to stay in their current job.There is much academic literature on the extent of job lock that is summarized well in a 2015 report by Dean Baker and published by the AARP Public Policy Institute. Baker noted that there is wide agreement among investigators that people with ESHI are less likely to change jobs, become self-employed, retire early, or reduce hours of work. Although there are many other factors besides health insurance that influence labor mobility, Baker concluded that even when those complicating factors are accounted for, job lock is a reality.A second criticism of employer-sponsored health insurance is its inequity. Workers with high-paying jobs get most of the benefits while those with lower pay or part-time status get little help.Differences in tax rates are part of the reason. According to data from the Kaiser Family Foundation, a typical ESHI policy with family coverage has a total cost of just under $20,000, of which employers pay about $14,000. Suppose you are a head of household earning $60,000 a year, sufficient to put you in the 25 percent federal tax bracket. Having your employer pay $14,000 of your insurance premium rather than getting that much extra in cash and paying the premium yourself would save you $3,500 in taxes. But if you are a top executive in the 40 percent tax bracket, the tax deductibility of the insurance is worth $5,600.However, according to the Tax Policy Center, some 44 percent of Americans pay no income tax at all—in most cases not because they enjoy massive loopholes but because their income is too low; 60 percent of the non-payers work. Even if they get ESHI, it gives them no tax benefit at all. They would be no worse off if health benefits were not deductible and employers added the cost of their insurance to their cash pay instead.There’s a second factor that adds to the inequity: Low-wage workers, by and large, are not even offered the option of health benefits. Data from the Social Security Administration show that only about one-third of workers in the lowest fifth of the wage distribution are offered health benefits and that less than 20 percent of them accept those offers. In contrast, more than 80 percent of those in the top fifth of the wage distribution are offered health benefits and accept them.Robert Kaestner and Darren Lubotsky, economists at the University of Illinois at Chicago, provide an estimate of the overall inequality of ESHI based on the combined effects of differences in tax rates and differences in offer and acceptance rates. The following chart from their study shows that workers in the bottom fifth of the family income distribution get annual benefits of less than $500 from ESHI while those in the top fifth get benefits averaging $4,500. What’s more, the value of health benefits to well-paid workers grew substantially over the period shown in the chart while the value for the lowest-paid workers decreased slightly.A third problem employer-sponsored health insurance contributes to is fragmentation of health care finance. A policy brief from Brandeis University put it this way:Fragmentation is a problem not only for small employers, who have little bargaining power in purchasing group policies from insurers, but also for larger employers. Many larger employers try to save on health-benefit costs by self-insuring. According to Collective Health, a company that advises employers on their ESHI programs, 79 percent of companies with 200 or more employees were self-insured in 2017, up from 60 percent in 1999.The problem is, companies that self-insure don’t always do a good job of it. Ali Diab, CEO and founder of Collective Health noted this in a post on the company’s blog:Recently, three corporate giants—Amazon, JPMorgan Chase, and Berkshire Hathaway—joined forces to form a combined health care enterprise to manage benefits for their hundreds of thousands of employees. The stock prices of traditional insurers fell when news of the consortium was announced, but many analysts are skeptical of how well it will work. Leemore Dafny, a professor at Harvard Business School, told reporters from the New York Times, “Just because you know an industry is underperforming and you have a lot of money doesn’t mean you have a successful strategy.” Dafny said she was excited to see such serious players take on the problems of ESHI but noted there were numerous examples of outsiders trying, and failing, to succeed in the health care system.When it comes down to hard bargaining, health care providers—including big insurers, hospitals, and drug companies—are less fragmented than employers. Furthermore, health care is what they know best. For employers whose main expertise lies in a number of other areas, health care is only a sideline. Given the structure of the system, providers will always come out ahead, driving up costs for workers and their families, which are the ultimate health care consumers.If employer-sponsored health insurance were a carefully crafted system established with some clear purpose in mind, we might think twice before getting rid of it, but it is not. Instead, people who have tried to trace its origins, like Indiana University’s Aaron Carroll, portray ESHI as an accident of history. Job-linked health benefits first became widespread during World War II when U.S. firms faced both a labor shortage and a wage freeze. Desperate to attract employees, the story goes, they started giving out benefits like health insurance instead of cash raises. The IRS boosted the popularity of ESHI by declaring such benefits to be nontaxable. When President Harry Truman’s attempts to establish a national health care system failed after the war, ESHI became a central element of a complex health care system whose many disparate parts have never fit together well.It really is good news, in a way, that ESHI is already fading away. The latest Employer Benefits Survey from the Kaiser Family Foundation shows that the percentage of employers offering health benefits declined from 68 percent in 2000 to 53 percent in 2017. Meanwhile, employee contributions and deductibles have been steadily increasing.We urgently need something better. It is time to stop putting up with the job lock, the inequities, and the fragmentation that characterize ESHI. Many of the leading ideas for health care reform, including universal catastrophic coverage (my preferred solution) and Bernie Sanders’ Medicare for All (popular among progressives), would replace ESHI altogether. Other reforms, such as the Medicare Extra plan from the Center for American Progress would allow both employers and employees to opt out of ESHI in favor of a fully portable type of insurance. The time to begin the transition is now.There are many ways to live a healthy life. The Health Diaries is a weekly series about the habits that keep notable people living well.David Sinclair is one of the world’s renowned longevity researchers. He believes that one day — sooner rather than later — scientists will be able to treat and even reverse aging. He’s spent the bulk of his career researching the pathways that control aging in the body. Sinclair, a geneticist and professor at Harvard Medical School, has helped identify the role of molecules that are potentially important for longevity, including resveratrol — found in small concentrations in the skin of grapes — and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD), a compound found naturally in the body that declines as we age but may be replenished through supplements.Sinclair is also a co-founder of Life Biosciences, a biopharmaceutical company that is investigating and commercializing treatments for aging. It’s the largest company addressing the eight pathways of what Life Biosciences refers to as age-related decline (ARD). Sinclair and his colleagues want to treat aging as a systemic breakdown of the body, rather than treating symptoms or specific conditions. Sinclair, who lives in Boston with his wife and three children, spoke to Medium about how he incorporates what he’s learned about longevity in the lab into his everyday life.I wake up every morning at 7 a.m., and I definitely need an alarm clock. I’m not morning person.I start the day with homemade yogurt. It’s whole milk with some special bacteria that we put in the oven. It takes 24 hours for it to culture, and it’s better than anything I know that you can buy. I sweeten it up with some stevia and throw some blueberries in there. I haven’t been sick since I started doing that a year ago.I don’t like vegetables, but I am slowly learning to like them more. I try to eat as many as I can for my health. Green or colored vegetables are my preference, not the starchy ones. In part because of their lower caloric level, but also because of their polyphenols—small molecules that have been shown to activate the body against diseases. I also try to avoid mammals. That’s mostly for health reasons.I often miss lunch because I am busy, but if I do eat lunch, I have a small soup or six pieces of sushi. That’s it. I am drinking tea throughout the day to stay hydrated.A typical dinner is a standard family meal, but I stick to small portions, and I don’t go back for seconds. My wife is a great cook. This is my big downfall. We eat as healthy as we can, but we have three kids. Usually it’s something unexpected and delicious.When I turned 40, about 10 years ago, I said no more dessert. Will I taste a little bit? Sure. But I don’t order it at restaurants.I wasn’t the healthiest kid, and I was overweight. I grew up in a household in the 1970s where there were always snacks around, like chips and peanuts. As soon as I got to college and discovered girls, I lost 15 pounds. I’ve kept off the weight since then, and I’ve been very conscious about what I eat, to the point that I drive people crazy.I practice what I discover. I take resveratrol, which we discovered had health properties 15 years ago, and an NAD supplement each day.I think low-calorie diets and fasting are potentially beneficial. It’s been known since 1916 that cutting back calories is beneficial in every organism it’s been tested on — from yeast to worms to mice to monkeys. I think it would be a surprise if we are an exception to that rule. I tried calorie restriction and couldn’t do it. It’s really hard to be hungry all the time. If I’m not hungry and I’m busy, I am quite happy to skip a meal. It’s informal intermittent fasting. I feel strongly that this is one of the strongest areas of longevity research. But I should caution that no one has done a full-scale, long-term clinical trial on this for longevity.It’s pretty hard for me to exercise regularly. I have gym at home, and my son—he’s 11—and I will try to go a couple times a week. I try to get my heart rate up on a treadmill once a week and lift some weights. I do pushups every morning before I go to work. I just feel better having done a little exercise at the beginning of the day, but that’s all I have time for, unfortunately.There’s no downtime in my life right now. It’s all occupied, and there’s no wasted time. If I have any spare time, I spend it with my children. I am in favor of work-life balance, and if someone could teach me how to be a better dad, please let me know. It’s getting harder every year.There’s so much that gets me excited every day. I have a front-row seat on hundreds of labs around the world. I’m very lucky in that way. I am helping bring together the world’s leading scientists in the field of aging. Not just to collaborate on science, but to collaborate on pharmaceutical development and make medicines that help the world. It’s been an incredible journey so far.At Life Biosciences, we are starting new companies every couple months to tackle new aspects of aging. There are eight so far, and we are not slowing down. There’s really new science that I can’t talk about yet, but it gives me a lot of confidence that we are going to see some really cool changes in medicine in our lifetime — if not much sooner than we think.I have an embarrassing confession to make: I kind of like Seth Abramson.Actually, no, not kind of. Fuck it. I like him.I will no longer cower in shame. The college professor, former public defender (and Harvard Law ’01 alum), occasional HuffPost blogger, popularizer of a newish cultural philosophy known as “metamodernism,” published experimental poet, and self-described “horizontal journalist” or “curatorial journalist” counts me among his as-of-this-moment 548,264 Twitter followers.For those who haven’t encountered his work, Abramson is what’s more commonly called a citizen journalist in that he writes about the Russia probe (which he would probably describe as a “Russia-Saudi Arabia-UAE-Qatar-Israel probe”) but is not connected with a major media institution.Or he wasn’t, that is, until he landed a book deal with Simon & Schuster, to the deep annoyance of just about everyone I know in the business.Not me. I’m fine with it. I got my hands on a review copy, and it turns out — contrary to early indications — not to be a collection of his tweets after all. Instead, Proof of Collusion: How Trump Betrayed America is a straightforward 400-plus page distillation of the available reporting on the subject to this point, culled almost entirely from published news articles and court filings, all boiling down to a simple if troubling contention: “Donald Trump and a core group of ten to twenty aids, associates and allies conspired with a hostile foreign power,” as Abramson put it, “to sell that power control over America’s foreign policy in exchange for financial reward and — eventually — covert election assistance.”It is, as the author concedes, merely a “theory of the case” at this point. But it’s the only plausible theory, he adds, that “coordinates with all the existing evidence” and “explains decades of suspicious behavior by Donald Trump, his family, and his closest associates.”Incredible as the story of Trump’s Russian entanglements always sounds when stated plainly, the evidence Abramson assembles is compelling, and we don’t know the half of it. Robert Mueller, presumably, knows more.Proof of Collusion may surprise Abramson’s detractors. Written more in the style of a legal criminal complaint than a potboiler, the book is almost entirely devoid of speculative musing or all-caps melodrama. Readers will search in vain for the juicy West Wing backbiting that made airport best-sellers out of Michael Wolff’s Fire and Fury and Bob Woodward’s Fear. In fact, it’s not even all that entertaining — and that’s to its credit. It’s more like homework. Or more accurately, by pulling together the many strands of a dizzyingly complex story, it offers a meticulous cheat sheet to the homework we should all be doing, diligently prepared by the relentlessly ostracized dork in the front row.I first encountered Abramson via his now infamous “MEGA-THREAD” from March 23, 2017. It boldly alleged: “The plot to sell America’s foreign policy for foreign oil _and_ steal an election in the bargain began at the Mayflower Hotel.” That first tweet out of an eventual 50 — declarative, nervy, unequivocal — went live at 8:45 p.m. that day and has since received over 21,000 likes and nearly as many retweets.The sprawling analysis did seem a touch overblown at the time — with its feverish speculation about the Trump campaign’s last-minute decision to switch the setting for the candidate’s first foreign-policy speech from the National Press Club to a ballroom in the Mayflower Hotel, claiming they needed more space. Abramson maintained that the new venue was smaller, theorizing that the real goal was to find a venue with private VIP areas in which one might, if so inclined, host an exclusive 24-person cocktail reception that would include the ambassadors to three countries (Russia, Italy, and Singapore) that were involved in a massive sale of stock in Rosneft, the Russian oil giant.Nineteen months ago, this seemed like a bit of a stretch. Even though Abramson had laid out his case in seemingly obsessive detail, relying as he does in the book on elements that had been reported in mainstream outlets, the thread did have the breathless tone of a conspiracy theory. And Abramson’s questionable decision to advertise it as a “MEGA-THREAD” was, in terms of Twitter etiquette, a little like wearing Vibram FiveFingers shoes to a Miss Universe after-party.Deadspin pounced, declaring Abramson “the reigning king of diarrhea tweeting” and pointing out a fatal flaw in his reasoning: The Mayflower ballroom is bigger. Whoops.But then, another twist! In short order, Abramson pointed out that actually, no, the speech had taken place not in the grand ballroom but in a different space that was, in fact, smaller, forcing Deadspin to begrudgingly update its post.This stuff is homework, and the nerdy kid is on it.The more critical issue with Abramson’s thread, from a journalistic point of view, was that line about “[selling] America’s foreign policy for foreign oil.” Because while it is alleged in the famous Steele dossier that the Trump team, via Carter Page, had been offered a massive brokerage fee on the Rosneft deal in exchange for loosening sanctions on Russia, it is not yet proven. In fact, Page denied that such a meeting even took place — until months later when he admitted under oath that it had.Was Abramson making a few leaps? Sure. And he’d kind of bared his ass with that “MEGA-THREAD” stuff. It’s not hard to see why Deadspin took the approach it did: Exposing an international criminal conspiracy is really hard. Why bother trying to run it down, and probably failing, when you can scoff at it instead and sound just as smart?The derision was unseemly, though. Abramson’s assertions might not have met the standards of the New York Times or another prestigious outlet — but this was Twitter. A grain of salt is standard equipment. And compared with most of what pours through my feed, this struck me as solid content.In the year and a half since, I pored over quite a few “MEGA-THREADS.” I absorbed Abramson’s analysis of the 2013 Miss Universe pageant and especially the allegations made by Kata Sarka, the former Miss Hungary. I have scrolled, spellbound, through these mostly well-reasoned speculations about the private walkway linking Trump Tower and Carter Page’s offices at 590 Madison; about the decisive pressure campaign against Jim Comey by rogue agents in the FBI’s New York field office; about the curious travels of George Papadopoulos; and about the Trump-Kennedy deal to put Brett Kavanaugh on the Supreme Court.Were they airtight in every detail? I have no fucking clue. But they were good threads, pulling together the reporting of credentialed journalists — reporting that those same journalists were often failing to place thing in context. While I never went so far as to retweet them (brushing off Abramson’s many cringey entreaties to do so), I did find them insightful.That makes me a dupe, according to my colleagues in the media, who made a crusade of trying to shame me and Abramson’s other followers for our innocent habit. A pile-on ensued, in which it seemed just about everyone got in at least one good sucker punch. The New Republic took a shot (“conspiracy mind-set”), followed by the Atlantic’s McKay Coppins (“delusional”), the Atlantic’s David Graham (“bizarre”), Slate (“hyperbolic sleight of hand”), and the Washington Post, which helpfully pointed out that “The New Republic and Atlantic have both dismissed the professor as a conspiracy theorist.”They all warned me off, deploying the deadliest snark in their respective arsenals. I read each one, and then I kept reading Abramson. Sure, he got a little over his skis sometimes — like when he speculated about the identity of the dossier’s “Source E.” But the speculation was labeled as such, and thoughtfully reasoned; you could follow the logic, even dig up the source material if you were so inclined, and decide whether it made sense. Plus, as I said, it was just Twitter, and speculating on Twitter about the biggest and most mind-bogglingly Pynchonesque news story any of us have ever encountered seemed like a perfectly worthy endeavor. And anyway, even the mainstream media makes an occasional mistake.But wow, the shade. Taken together, the mini-genre of Abramson hit-pieces constitute a master class in journalistic smarm. Rather than engaging with the content of his feed, they sought to handcuff him to a brigade of left-leaning conspiracy tweeters with whom he has little in common. They taunted him for being a poet, for being a creative writing professor, and for calling himself an attorney when his membership in the New Hampshire bar was, in fact, classified as “inactive.” And of course, for being thirsty online.Curiously, though, what almost none of them bothered to do, with all the homilies about proper journalistic practice, was reach out to him for comment.“I totally would talk to them, and they wouldn’t be able to write their piece, by the way,” Abramson insisted, sitting on the patio of his tidy home on a suburban street in southern New Hampshire, where he lives with his wife, a bunch of bird plushies, and a Lego collection. This was in the spring of 2017. The Trump administration was still fresh, and Abramson’s follower count numbered in the lowish six figures. I happened to be on vacation nearby, and I’d arranged a meeting thinking he might make an interesting subject for a profile. We wound up talking for four hours.“I mean you can see from this conversation,” he went on, “that they probably would have just said, ‘Fuck this, I want don’t want to write about it because it’s too stupid and complicated.’”It occurred to me that he might have a point. Nothing about Abramson is stupid, but he is complicated. He’s a Twitter celebrity, granted, and a Harvard-trained lawyer, but he’s also a scholar with a penchant for esoteric ideas and philosophical musings. And yes, he’s a poet (and poets, as he helpfully pointed out, are accustomed to being misunderstood).With a chorus of birds in the background — bluejays, cardinals, robins, goldfinches, and “obviously a lot of sparrows,” he said — we talked less about Trump than about other aspects of his career, about his work as a criminal defense attorney and subsequent shift to academia; his battles with the literary establishment over the proper evaluation of MFA programs; his failed attempt to publish Shia LaBeouf’s tweets in the Best American Experimental Writing anthology, which he edits; his brazen incitement of the Star Wars fandom; his targeting by neo-Nazi hacker Andrew “weev” Auernheimer; and most of all, his embrace of a new philosophical paradigm known as metamodernism.Abramson, who grew up in Acton, Massachusetts, was a shy kid, a “nonclinical agoraphobic,” as he puts it. Aside from going to school, he told me, “I stayed in my room with the doors locked almost every day for years. That was my life.”When he finally resolved to make a change, it was a big one. At 19, he began working as a criminal investigator for a legal clinic in Washington, D.C., a move he thinks of as “a sort of violent overreaction to having done a certain amount of damage to myself as a young person by shutting myself off from the world. I went from sitting in my room to working the streets of Anacostia searching for witnesses and doing witness interviews.”After graduating from Dartmouth, he entered Harvard Law with the goal of becoming a defense attorney. Abramson began working cases while still in school under Rule 33, which allows law students to represent indigent defendants. Court authorities gave him just 60 seconds to make his case to clients that they should let a student-attorney represent them, crouching to offer his services through a narrow “Judas slit” in the prison door.“You feel like a fraud,” he said. “You worry that you’re going to let them down. And you see a lot of suffering.”He turned to writing as a sort of therapeutic intervention, knocking out 400 poems in one year. After spending seven years as a public defender, he burned out and decided to go back to school. “I just couldn’t do it anymore,” he said. “You’re seeing the car crash of our socioeconomics in the U.S. every single day. Emotionally I was breaking down. It was natural to reach for creative writing as a lifeline because it had always been that for me.”Abramson wound up getting an MFA at the Iowa Writers Workshop, followed by a doctorate in literary studies at the University of Wisconsin. Meanwhile, he became convinced that MFA programs were too insular. Many of the top programs offered little or no funding, which meant that only well-off students could afford to pursue the discipline. Abramson decided to create a new ranking system that took the views of applicants into account. Naturally, their responses favored programs that didn’t demand they go into crippling debt, and the results instantly upended the traditional hierarchy.Abramson says his goal was to force schools to offer MFA candidates more financial aid or risk their exalted status; meanwhile, he also pissed off a lot of people at elite programs. “They called me a charlatan,” he said of the backlash.Abramson describes his MFA ranking battle as his first attempt of many to redefine the role of poetry in American life.In May 2014, just two days after Elliot Rodger killed six people near the University of California at Santa Barbara, Abramson “remixed” Rodger’s final screed into an experimental poem and published it on the Huffington Post. The idea, he wrote, was to “to rescue language from a perversion of language,” to address the killer directly using his own words.The poem doesn’t really work, as even Abramson admits now. And he’d “crossed an uncrossable line,” he said. His detractors in academia denounced him, and a mass-condemnation on Twitter followed. “It causes me a lot of pain to think about,” he told me. “I was wrecked for six or eight months.”By December of that year, Abramson had soured on Twitter and deleted his feed, at least for awhile.If modernism, which flourished in the early 20th century, was animated by a belief in reason, science, and universal truths, postmodernists offered a powerful counterargument: Everything was relative. The grand master narratives were simply myths. Truth was in the eye of the beholder.Postmodernism turned out to be as depressing as it was persuasive, bringing on an epidemic of irony, self-consciousness, and passivity for which metamodernism proposes a cure. While it acknowledges that there is no objective truth, it nonetheless chooses to highlight the power of the stories, or “metanarratives,” that we tell about the world. And rather than getting hung up on longstanding dualities — cynicism versus optimism, reality versus fantasy, irony versus sincerity — it dances between the poles instead.It’s a heady concept, but those who stumble on it often begin to see examples of metamodernism throughout the culture. It certainly helps explain how Abramson managed to identify the tectonic significance of Donald Trump’s presidential bid when nearly everyone else in the media was laughing it off.The day after Trump announced his campaign in the summer of 2015, when the developer and TV star was just one of a dozen aspirants for the Republican nomination, Abramson posted an essay in which he argued that Trump’s was “a serious candidacy that will have serious repercussions for both Democrats and Republicans alike.” Rather than viewing the campaign as either a cynical branding ploy or a sincere attempt to lead the country, Abramson insisted it was both.“Trump is smart enough to know when he — or his speeches; or his haircut; or his political ambitions — are being mocked,” he wrote, “but in the Metamodern Age we can develop metanarratives that animate us even as we fully recognize that they’re farcical to everyone else.”As the campaign heated up, Abramson found himself doing the much same thing — developing metanarratives that, despite having a factual basis, were often seen as patently absurd. A supporter of Bernie Sanders, he wrote a series of pieces on HuffPo arguing that the Vermont senator had a real shot — essays that would later become Exhibit A in the media’s effort to paint Abramson as a peddler of false hopes for delusional liberals.The pushback, while missing the point, was predictable. Abramson’s headlines, like “Bernie Sanders Is Currently Winning the Democratic Primary Race, and I’ll Prove It to You” and “Bernie Sanders Could Still Win the Democratic Nomination — No, Seriously” were, he admits, a form of clickbait. And of course, Sanders eventually lost to Clinton, as the mainstream press had tirelessly predicted.But the pieces are more subtle than critics acknowledged. The first made an interesting and original observation: If you ignored early balloting (which often took place before Sanders was well-known to voters) and looked only at election day votes in states that Sanders contested, he often tied or beat Clinton. The second piece explores an unlikely but plausible scenario where Sanders’ habit of doubling Clinton’s lead in head-to-head matchups against Trump might just spook her superdelegates into a mass defection.Gaming out such unlikely scenarios was risky, and Abramson was roundly mocked for it. But that doesn’t make play-it-safe punditry a more valuable service to readers.Abramson’s metanarratives, by contrast, served to remind us that that there are no foregone conclusions in politics — a view that, had it been adopted by the mainstream press, might have insulated them from their own eventual mass delusion: that our 45th president would wear a pantsuit.What journalists don’t always seem to grasp is that we are also writing metanarratives — assembling the available facts to tell stories. Where Abramson views metamodernism as an antidote to postmodernism’s despair, the metanarratives proffered by the mainstream media tend to be cynical, in the familiar postmodern style. Despite a widespread desire to “make a difference,” we’re a jaded group by nature, hovering over the news cycle like streetwise Law & Order detectives called to yet another homicide. “Looks like we got another one,” we say, with a world-weary shake of the head.But the Trump campaign’s interactions with foreign powers, and Russia’s active measures, and everything that’s happened since do not actually constitute just another run-of-the-mill political scandal. Not even close. And while individual reporters have done impressive work illuminating various aspects of the story (and Abramson dutifully thanks them, and their employers, in his book’s acknowledgements), as a whole, the media hasn’t quite risen to the occasion. Day after day, they reach for an obsolete playbook: chasing scooplets then failing to contextualize them; amplifying the administration’s most farcical assertions and then sanctimoniously fact-checking them; examining the optics of each fresh outrage without illuminating the damage; and regularly failing to process the ramifications of their own reporting. (Note, for example, the recent uproar over Axios’ would-be scoop involving the supposed elimination of birthright citizenship.)One of the appeals of Abramson’s Trump threads is that the one-time criminal defense attorney has somehow retained the ability to recognize the apparent criminality behind Trump’s endless spectacles — the appointment of Matt Whitaker as acting attorney general being one recent example — when most of us have long since gone numb.All available evidence indicates that the chief executive of the world’s only current superpower has a history of criminal behavior going back decades, that his election owes in part to criminal acts and is therefore fundamentally illegitimate, that he may be compromised by a hostile power, and that he is now bargaining away the nation’s foreign policy and attacking its most deeply held values to save his own skin or fatten his wallet or both.Sounds like a hell of a story. It also sounds… kind of overwhelming.Weaponized eye-rolling is an understandable response to Trump’s manufactured chaos. It’s easier to moralize about the dangerous allure of conspiracy theories than to seriously consider the implications of what we already know. Then again, in much the way the entire media except two reporters ignored the implications of the Watergate break-in for a solid year, there was also a time, not long ago, when the Trump-Russia scandal might well have been buried amid the president’s endless barrage of distractions were it not for a bunch of annoying people — credentialed journalists as well as civilians — who wouldn’t stop harping on it.Under the circumstances, Abramson has performed a valuable service. While the rest of the media is feverishly chasing and then dissecting the latest unconscionable but somehow weightless revelation, he’s taken on the more complicated task of actually looking at what’s come to light, putting the pieces together and seeing what the fuck they add up to.Which isn’t to say he hasn’t made himself a pretty tempting target while doing so. Abramson is a weird dude. He’s really into Lego. He’s socially awkward and a little compulsive, and he may have a slight martyr complex. He takes himself extremely seriously. On occasion, he might overshoot the mark a bit. His book proposal sounds insane (although it did land him a book deal). He shamelessly solicits retweets and yet he has more followers than most of us put together.He’s also probably right. And until Mueller files his report — if he files his report — Abramson’s metanarrative may be the best we have.Cody Wilson used one word to summarize the culminating event in his years-long lawsuit against the U.S. government: “Epochal.”This was in July, when news became public about the Department of Justice reaching a legal settlement with Defense Distributed, the Texas nonprofit Wilson founded in 2012 to help distribute 3D-printed firearms. And the response was what I expected from Wilson, a 30-year-old provocateur prone to self-mythologizing. I met him in 2014, when he was 26, after he had successfully designed, manufactured, and test-fired the Liberator, the world’s first fully 3D-printed gun. That breakthrough, and his subsequent effort to disseminate the blueprint to anyone with an internet connection, unleashed all manner of hell.Wilson has long been a showman, equal parts ideologue and 1960s ad man, prone to philosophical meandering and asseverations about state tyranny and possessing a penchant for deliberately poking the political class. His sincerity was often questioned, but even four years removed, I knew what a victory over the federal government meant to him. It meant that Cody Wilson had come tantalizingly close to his dream of dismembering U.S. gun control.“I don’t have to argue philosophically now,” he said during a short phone call at the end of August. “I only have to argue the law.”Two weeks later, the law caught up to Wilson, albeit in a far different way. He was arrested in Taiwan and extradited to the United States for allegedly sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. He met her on SugarDaddyMeet.com, used his real name, called himself a “big deal,” picked her up in an SUV registered to Defense Distributed, took her to a hotel, had sex with her, and paid her five $100 bills, according to an affidavit by Shaun Donovan, a detective with the Austin Police Department. On September 21, the day of his arrest, Wilson resigned from the company.The scandal inspired a measure of glee in Wilson’s opponents. “But the NRA told us Cody Wilson was a good guy with a gun…,” Shannon Watts, founder of gun-control advocacy group Moms Demand, wrote on Twitter.The following Tuesday, however, Paloma Heindorff, vice president of operations at Defense Distributed, introduced herself as the nonprofit’s new director. Heindorff, a three-year veteran of the company, struck a defiant attitude during a press conference, describing her employees as “resilient” and parrying all queries about Wilson’s new legal predicament. Reporters present asked the obvious question: How does Defense Distributed continue on without Cody Wilson? Heindorff had an answer at the ready. “We believe in something, and that something isn’t one man,” she said. “That something is an idea, and we are fully committed to that idea.”For a moment, it may have seemed that the idea of 3D-printed guns might follow Cody Wilson down. But the idea Heindorff invokes — the idea that gun control as we know it can be destroyed by giving every American the capacity to build their own guns — may simply be too powerful to stop.Before 2013, Cody Wilson had used 3D printing to successfully manufacture rifle magazines and the AR-15 lower receiver (the piece, regulated by the federal government, that is required to actually operate the rifle). But it wasn’t until he released the Liberator that he became notorious. After Wilson uploaded the digital blueprints to Defcad.com, a clearinghouse Defense Distributed set up to share its various computer-aided design files for gun components, plans for the Liberator were downloaded 100,000 times. Two days later, Wilson dropped out of law school at the University of Texas. A couple days after that, the State Department ordered him to take his files offline, citing arms export control law. Because people in other countries could download those files, the government argued, Defense Distributed was illegally trafficking guns. Wilson complied and shut down Defcad.The Defcad files had been offline for a year and a half when I visited Defense Distributed’s Austin-based factory in 2014. That December, Wilson was preparing an entirely different project: the Ghost Gunner, a desktop milling machine that enables even know-nothing machinists to mill a four-fifths-finished aluminum lower receiver to completion. Because purchasing what’s called an “80 percent lower” doesn’t require a background check, users of the Ghost Gunner could complete the component and then purchase the remaining parts of an AR-15 rifle — also without a background check — to build an untraceable firearm. Wilson said he sold out a preorder of 500 machines, grossing $700,000, and teased his forthcoming legal battle. “There will be a Defense Distributed v. United States that those bastards at UT law will have to read one day,” he told me then.True to his word, in May 2015, Defense Distributed used the money from Ghost Gunner sales to sue the State Department, essentially arguing that the federal government ordering files off the internet is akin to a prior restraint of speech. In doing so, it coupled the First and Second Amendments by contending that digital files are a form of expression. The move found unlikely supporters. Even the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press submitted an amicus brief in Defense Distributed’s favor. “To come after the Second Amendment now, you increasingly have to come after people’s ability to publish and communicate,” Wilson speculated four years ago.When the State Department ordered the company to shut down Defcad in 2013, its argument concerned only the alleged violation of federal arms export control law, not the act itself of publishing digital gun files. After all, technical data about guns, including their manufacture, is readily available elsewhere online and in library books about gunsmithing.When the government settled this year, the State Department denied that it violated Defense Distributed’s First and Second Amendment rights — and yet the settlement itself indirectly conceded the point. It gave Defense Distributed a license to publish all the files it had previously ordered the company to take offline, effectively agreeing with Defense Distributed’s take on the fundamental question underlying the entire legal conflict: that computer code, even code that can lead to the production of a functional firearm, is protected speech.It was a bold gambit, but a winning one. On July 27, 2018, 10 files — including the full technical plans of the AR-15 and the 3D-printable design file of the Liberator — reappeared on Defcad.com. No longer was Wilson a mere tech-savvy Dennis the Menace. He was now a fully sanctioned arms dealer with the law on his side.The fact that Defense Distributed could continue distributing files is far less important than the broader implications of the fight. By savvy and subversive use of technology, Wilson had not only muddled what it means to sell, obtain, and own a gun; he had also called into question what a gun actually is, thereby transforming a legal question into a far more complicated technological problem practically inextricable from the concept of free expression. “I believe what I’m doing immeasurably enables the Second Amendment,” said Wilson during an interview with CBS on August 2. “It immeasurably expands it in a technical era.”Like Napster before it, Defense Distributed pushed America toward a new order where ownership is disordered, accountability is next to nil, and technology is always a few steps ahead of the law. This — anarchy, essentially — was always the plan. “What separated Defense Distributed from the impotent,” Wilson wrote in Come and Take It, the memoir he published in 2016, “was that when we said ‘universal access to arms,’ those who listened understood we meant just that… We not only meant it; we intended to take the fanatical steps to enact it.”Alarmed by the settlement with the federal government, state attorneys general moved in on July 30, four days after Defense Distributed’s files went back online. Eight of them sued the State Department, arguing that the settlement itself was unlawful. The next day, Judge Robert Lasnik of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington granted a temporary restraining order. Defense Distributed had to take down the files it had just reposted. On August 27, by which point attorneys general from 11 other states had joined in, Lasnik extended the order by granting a preliminary injunction, effectively blocking Defense Distributed, for the time being, from publishing its files online.“Regulation under the [Arms Export Control Act] means that the files cannot be uploaded to the internet,” Lasnik wrote in his court order, adding, “but they can be emailed, mailed, securely transmitted, or otherwise published within the United States.”True to form, the very next day, Wilson announced the company would sell the files via thumb drive to verified U.S. persons with verified U.S. addresses, likening Defense Distributed to the iTunes of digital gun sales. On the first day, Defense Distributed made $20,000 selling branded USB sticks that contained the 10 gun files it had just been forced to remove from the internet. The move smacked of the same counter-maneuvering that has marked the company’s efforts from the beginning.It is ongoing. “We’re still shipping and have no intention of stopping,” Heindorff said at the September press conference. “We believe that people have the right to have these files.”But the vision was always bigger than computer files, bigger than just getting a single-shot, 3D-printed pistol to fire. No mass shooting, no resurgent gun-control movement, no form of U.S. government could ever stand in the way of Defense Distributed’s first order of business: universal access to arms. Given many Americans’ strong attachment to the power of firearm ownership, this is an idea whose resonance will only deepen.The idea of universal access finds its perfect vessel in Paloma Heindorff, Wilson’s successor at Defense Distributed. Born and raised by artistic parents in central London, she grew up in a “socialist-leaning” family who was “definitely anti-firearm,” as she said during an episode of Tom Gresham’s syndicated radio show, Gun Talk, that aired in October 2017. It was only after she moved to New York City that Heindorff began her journey into pro-gun activism.“I was dismayed by the narrative in the world today, the idea we can be looked after by our government,” she told Gresham. “Not only is it ridiculous fundamentally, it also erodes the power that one can feel as an individual.”A libertarian friend of Heindorff’s originally turned her on to Defense Distributed. After spending a weekend watching slick YouTube clips of the nonprofit’s work, she emailed Wilson, received a reply, and in five weeks had moved everything she owned to Austin and took up a position at the company. In the span of two years, she went from having never fired a weapon to pulling the trigger on a .50-caliber M2 Browning machine gun.Heindorff didn’t respond to several email requests for comment, but it’s evident to anyone who has followed her that the idea of immeasurably enabling gun rights is as potent in Heindorff as it was in Wilson. “It’s obvious to everyone here that he’s been an incredibly powerful figurehead,” she said at the September press conference. “But this is about an idea.” Wilson may have the verve of a showman, but Heindorff has the zeal of a convert.Still, Heindorff must contend with one last obstacle: the preliminary injunction granted in August, a crucial, last-ditch effort for the states involved.“It’s been a happy coincidence for the states that the export laws have also protected the states themselves and their residents from these 3D-printed gun blueprints,” says Mary B. McCord, a visiting professor at Georgetown University Law School and former attorney with the Department of Justice. (In an article published over the summer, McCord called the First Amendment argument Wilson used in Defense Distributed’s legal fight mere “window dressing for his real goal: to put guns into the hands of every person who wants one.”)Since the preliminary injunction that took Defense Distributed’s files offline yet again, the company has raised about $400,000 to continue a legal fight it thought was over as of July. Defense Distributed filed its motion to dismiss in late October. If the case in Washington is thrown out, that protection the states have enjoyed goes away. (In the time since the motion was filed, a gunman killed 12 people at a bar in Los Angeles. Less than 24 hours later, a New Jersey law that outlaws 3D-printed guns and “ghost guns” went into effect. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said the law was passed “to stop the next Cody Wilson.”)Yet this fresh legal imbroglio has done little to halt Defense Distributed’s ultimate goal of expanding Americans’ access to guns. In a rebuttal to the state attorneys general, an unassociated website, CodeIsFreeSpeech.com, began hosting all the company’s files. (“Defense Distributed’s not posting its files, but you can find them in five seconds on Google,” says Josh Blackman, the group’s attorney.) Or you can simply buy a branded USB drive, a tiny source of terror that can’t be controlled: the samizdat of lethal weaponry, coursing through the underground, forever.Regardless of Cody Wilson’s fate, we’ve turned a corner. There’s likely no going back. His bitterest opponents, as much as anyone, know that fact all too well.“Cody Wilson was the face of Defense Distributed and 3D-printed guns, but we doubt that his movement will die with his resignation,” the co-presidents of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence said in a statement after Wilson resigned. “The Pandora’s box has been opened, and it will not go away with Wilson.”Last month, Apple added 158 new emojis to iOS, but the emoji keyboard on iPhone — the primary means of accessing each of these characters — remains almost identical to the one we used nearly a decade ago.Meanwhile, people push for competing interests. Some want more emojis to better represent the diverse world we live in while others are frustrated by the ever-increasing list of characters to scroll past when new emojis push old favorites to the side.“Just make it stop!” my friend Elle remarked after the most recent update, clearly falling in the latter camp of emoji traditionalists.The two problems have something in common: An ever-increasing library of emojis has started to push our gadgets to the limit. Too many new emojis make it harder to find what you actually want to use on the keyboard, and the keyboard itself can’t accommodate diverse options.All these issues need to be considered by the Unicode Consortium, the group responsible for approving new emoji characters each year. Unicode acts as the liaison between users and vendors when it comes to managing which new emojis come out when. (Full disclosure: My site, Emojipedia, is a voting Unicode member, and I participate with the emoji subcommittee.)With a potential onslaught of new emojis on the way in coming years, is the emoji keyboard up to the challenge?There are three main groups involved in approving, releasing, and using emojis. First, there’s Unicode, which approves and encodes emojis that will be supported by all major vendors — Apple, Google, and Samsung, for example. There’s no point in Unicode approving new emojis if vendors aren’t going to support them on their platforms.Meanwhile, those vendors want emojis that address the needs of their customers while remaining in line with their corporate values. They have a clear incentive to address user demand while also juggling how new additions fit on the keyboard and within the memory constraints of a mobile operating system.Finally, people who use emojis on products like iOS or WhatsApp want, well, a mix of everything. Some want more emojis to represent things like bagels; some don’t want a single new emoji unless the keyboard improves.Proposals for new emojis, both from companies and the general public, are assessed by the Unicode Consortium to see if they’ll be included in the Unicode Standard. But Unicode doesn’t handle the art direction for emojis; companies are responsible for how any emoji looks on their platform — which is why a smiley face looks different on an iPhone than a Galaxy — and that can make things complicated. Innovation can only go so far: Should any company stray too far from the rest of the pack, they risk drawing ire from their users. Plus, one company changing an emoji’s appearance won’t determine how it is seen by recipients with phones from different vendors.For example, one of the biggest issues with Apple unilaterally changing its gun emoji to look like a toy in 2016 wasn’t so much the change itself but the fact that Apple was the only company doing it. The result was cross-platform confusion where a toy water pistol could be sent from an iPhone and arrive as a lethal weapon on a Samsung Galaxy. (All major vendors eventually changed their gun emojis to toys in 2018.)Consider the wine glass emoji: It depicts red wine, not white, which could reasonably arouse the suspicions of a picky sommelier. If Unicode were to approve a new “white wine” character, it would raise other questions: What about rosé? What about stout or pale ale instead of a general beer? This might seem like nitpicking, but when you have a text-encoding standard that is deployed across billions of devices around the world, being thorough isn’t optional.To take a real example from the latest emoji update: Redheads, it seems, aren’t all that happy that they have been relegated to a single woman or man with red hair (plus skin tones) on the emoji keyboard. The bride emoji wasn’t given a red hair option, though she can have blond or brown hair. That problem extends to all the new hair-based emojis introduced this year. Though there are individual emojis depicting a person with curly hair, white hair, and no hair, you can’t mix and match them with other existing emojis, making it so that there are no options for a curly-haired runner, a red-haired surfer, or a bald police officer.Things become substantially more complicated when you add skin tones to the mix.The superhero emoji currently has 12 variants for gender and skin tone (six women, six men). Adding each hair type to those options of tones would take that 12 and make it 60 possible variants. Suddenly, choosing an emoji is like creating a character in The Sims — hardly feasible on a standard emoji keyboard.While accommodating all the different hairstyles would be a challenge, you could imagine how it would be possible — if Unicode and vendors decided to prioritize it. The emoji keyboard could probably handle four rows of hair types for each emoji if that was deemed a priority. But what if you wanted to mix all of this into the emojis that show more than one person — say, to create a diverse family? Well, it’s all about the numbers.As of 2018, most vendors don’t permit any emoji with multiple people in it to change skin tones. You can’t create a mixed-race family, and there would be two main design challenges if you could:Microsoft has some technology on Windows that makes emoji combinations more practical to implement than the pre-rendered designs used by Apple and Samsung. As such, Windows already allows thousands of family combinations in emoji format. But there’s a catch: There’s no interface to add them on the Windows emoji keyboard — which is lucky, actually, because no one wants to scroll past 52,000 family emojis to get to the lion or baseball.Those who don’t identify with the two current gender options that make up the bulk of the emoji choices have access to three gender-inclusive emojis for a child, adult, and older adult. These were approved in 2017 and effectively serve as a third unspecified gender for nonbinary folk (or anyone who happens to feel these emoji more closely resemble their personal style). These can’t currently be added to a family grouping on any platform nor are they given options for any of the new hairstyles. You can send an emoji of a mechanic, pilot, artist, or student who is a woman or a man but there’s not a gender-neutral emoji option for any of them.Diversity and representation are incredibly important, but there are real-world constraints that make unlimited diversity practically impossible given how emojis work today. The “press and hold” keyboard couldn’t support so many options, and even if it could, things would get extremely messy if some vendors adopted the diverse options and others didn’t.But there is good news on the horizon for diversity. An option to allow 55 new emojis for people holding hands is drafted for the 2019 emoji release. Being that there are only two people in this emoji, there are thousands fewer combinations than multi-person families would require.This might be the nudge vendors need to add new functionality to the trusty emoji keyboard, which could help down the line.The emoji keyboard is the most visible aspect of the emoji character set because it’s where we can see them all in one place. Apple’s emoji keyboard back in 2008 had just 471 emojis on it, yet it looked almost identical to the iOS keyboard today — which supports 2,776 emojis.Each new addition to the emoji keyboard is carefully inserted in the place it is deemed most logical, but users sometimes can’t find them. It’s easy enough to find the bagel among the food items, but what about the lab coat, ball of yarn, or abacus?And why do we need any of these new objects, anyway? It’s one thing to note that representation is important when it comes to people, but when it comes to objects, perhaps we’d manage fine without the new compass emoji added in 2018.Unicode has a wide variety of selection factors that go into determining which emoji proposals to approve. These mostly do a good job of filtering out emojis that aren’t likely to be popular or that really can’t be identified at tiny text sizes. The trouble is, an emoji that is superfluous to me might be considered essential to you. Just because I don’t have much use for a petri dish emoji doesn’t mean that no one does. For this reason, Unicode considers many new emojis every year, and it implements many of them.One feature would really help users sort through them all: search. Google has offered a search option on their Gboard emoji keyboard (that comes installed on stock Android devices) for years, and Apple has emoji search on the Mac.When it comes to the two most popular phone vendors on the planet — Apple and Samsung — there’s another alternative to scrolling for that perfect emoji, and that is autosuggest. When autosuggest works, it’s great. There’s no need to even open the emoji keyboard. I type “cocktail” and up comes a choice of two cocktail glasses. I type “monocle” and there is the monocle-wearing guy smiling smugly back at me. To get the finger pointing to the left, I type — well, I’m not sure, actually. “Pointing” gives me the single digit raised up; “finger” gives me no choices, and “left” suggests the word “leftovers” in the third segment of the screen where emojis generally appear.So go on, Apple, let us search.Another fix would be to let users hide emojis from the keyboard. Unicode doesn’t remove emojis from the Unicode Standard, but there’s nothing saying that every emoji must be shown on every emoji keyboard.It’s clear that when it comes to emojis for diverse families, couples, or other groupings, the “press-and-hold” function isn’t going to scale for hundreds or thousands of combinations. If diverse families are added to the mix in future years, the emoji keyboard will have to undergo substantial changes.Increased representation on our personal devices is important, and companies have recognized this by offering alternatives to the Unicode emoji set in recent years. Apple has Memoji, Samsung has AR Emoji, and Google has Minis, which all allow far more customization of individual people than Unicode could ever offer. These can’t be sent inline with text (one of the true reasons standard emojis are so popular), but they do fill a role that Unicode may never be able to.As Google’s head of emoji Jennifer Daniel puts it, “Sometimes you just really need a pink-haired monocle speckled giant hair bow wearing zombie with a goatee.” That level of detail is not likely in Unicode’s emoji future, but who knows what else might be?Every damn day, a window pops up in the upper right corner of my MacBook.Inevitably, I’ll click “try tonight” and, since my computer is rarely plugged in, I’ll get another notification — a reminder that updates can only occur when the computer is hooked up to a power supply.Despite feeling like I just updated my computer a few months ago, I’m still plagued with update notifications that pop up when I’m busy with other tasks (or just scrolling through Twitter). It’s relentless: Just when I thought I was free from my notification prison, I’d be reminded to update before I click — again! — “remind me tomorrow.”I’m not the only one enraged by my computer’s endless nagging. Tens of thousands of searches about disabling updates occur on Google every month, according to the platform’s keyword planning tool for advertisers. A 2017 Pew Research survey found that 14 percent of people never update their phone’s operating system, and 42 percent only do so when it’s convenient, despite these updates sometimes containing urgent security fixes.Research shows that notifications can destroy focus and even cause stress and anxiety. While researchers have yet to turn their clinical attention to software updates specifically, it’s likely that the unwanted diversion I get from annoying email push notifications, robocalls, or overactive group chats causes the same neurological response as my computer’s daily reminder that I’m not taking good enough care of it.Sara Thomée, an assistant psychology professor at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden, described it in evolutionary terms. Our brains, she told me, are evolved to react to stimuli to protect us against danger; a corresponding rise in stress hormones, like cortisol, will better enable us to react to that danger. In a sense, she said, technological notifications act in a similar way.“In a workday, where perhaps not many tigers are around, frequent notifications will probably raise our levels of stress and break our focus,” she said.One 2016 study looked at the neurological effect of smartphone notifications on subjects involved in a task, and found that notifications had a notable impact on the concentration and task performance of those prone to smartphone overuse. Research from the Future Work Centre, based in the United Kingdom, found that people who utilize email push notifications on their phones and computers also reported feeling stress and pressure around email.Part of that stress comes from splitting your attention between different things. Not only does switching your focus from one task (say, me writing this story) to another (a text message from my sister) require psychological energy; the inevitable switch back requires yet more energy, and that, Thomée said, delays productivity.Even worse, wrote neuroscientist Daniel Levitin in The Guardian, the necessary decision-making that arises when a notification interrupts another task causes further stress and energy depletion. Regardless of whether or not I elect to follow my computer’s prompt, the energy required to make that decision, and countless other similar, notification-prompted choices, accumulates over the course of the day.“It turns out that decision-making is also very hard on your neural resources,” Levitin wrote. “Little decisions appear to take up as much energy as big ones.”Thomée thinks guilt may play a part in this stressful energy depletion, noting that if we decide to go along with our technology’s demands, it could bring up anxiety about what that update will actually do to our devices. This fear isn’t entirely unwarranted: Apple is infamous for throttling older devices through iOS updates, and was hit last month with a $5.7 million fine from an Italian antitrust organization for slowing down phones with new software updates, as well as two class action lawsuits. Sony once released — and ultimately pulled — a PlayStation 3 update that completely broke some consoles.One study from May looked at why users don’t update their software by surveying existing literature and polling hundreds of people via Amazon Mechanical Turk and Google Consumer Surveys. It found that 7.5 percent of participants cited “update risk,” including “data loss due to the update, and whether the update may be malicious,” as a significant concern, compared to 40.5 percent for update “costs” like time and storage space. Twenty-nine percent cited “necessity” — whether the user feels the update is important or needed.Ultimately, as annoying and potentially risky as software update notifications are, it’s considerably more dangerous to leave your software out of date. Developers push updates in response to discovering vulnerabilities, so if you don’t update, you’re potentially putting your computer or phone at risk of being hacked.Yet, it’s undeniable that the current system doesn’t quite work, at least where apps are concerned. Research shows that push notifications trigger a majority of app uninstalls, which could be bad for business. And further studies found that even people who identify as software developers or IT professionals often neglect to update their software, and that timing certainly plays a role: If an update notification comes while you’re watching a video or doing work, you’re liable to ignore it.“Say you’re in the middle of talking to the board and your boss with this beautiful presentation you prepared for six months and then in the middle it says, ‘Please update your software.’ I mean, how stupid is that?” Nir Eyal, an author who specializes in the intersection of psychology and tech, said. Given the amount of data these companies have on us, Nir said, “they should be able to know when you’re in a meeting, when you’re using a piece of software and you don’t want to be interrupted.”“Silent updates,” where software automatically downloads and installs new data in the background to avoid interrupting users, can help. But that’s not always possible. For example, game or iOS updates can be many gigabytes large — too much to download over a cellular network, unless you’re into data overages — and require quite a bit of time to install.You can often opt into automatic updates via your device’s app store, and given how impactful those notifications can be, it’s probably wise to do so. There will always be some we must handle manually, however. Maybe we should also resign ourselves to the Sisyphean task of software updates as a price of admission in the modern world.Tim Wu has the kind of résumé that would make the most ambitious helicopter parent smile. A graduate of McGill and Harvard Law, Wu trained under some of the legal world’s biggest names, including Stephen Breyer, whom he clerked for on the Supreme Court. Wu was a professor by the time he was 30; today, he’s settled at Columbia Law, where he co-directs the Program on Law and Technology. Oh, and he worked for the Federal Trade Commission and later the National Economic Council, both under Obama. You might know him for coining the term “net neutrality” or for his 2010 book, The Master Switch, or maybe you voted for him for lieutenant governor of New York in 2014, when he took 40 percent of the Democratic primary.And yet, for all his time spent in the halls of power, Wu wants nothing more than to change the way America works. Wu’s slender but powerful new book, The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age, is a full-throated call for the government to use its authority to break up our biggest corporations, particularly tech titans like Facebook and Google.The day after the midterms, I reached Wu on the phone at his office in New York. We talked about the future prospects of antitrust politics, his thoughts on socialism and the state of the Democratic Party, and whether he’s auditioning for the role of America’s next great trust buster. Wu says The Curse of Bigness isn’t a job application, but he’s suspiciously well-qualified.Tim Wu: We’re dealing with a lot of questions that go back to the issue of concentration. If you look at decades of wage stagnation, huge inequality, that goes back to concentration. And our political system is controlled by those same monopolies too; you run into them whenever you try to make changes. It’s like if you want to change anything, first you have to handle the monopolies.We’ve had periods in this country where antitrust fervor was very strong. Both Democrats and Republicans had strong antitrust planks in their party platforms. There was even a whole antitrust party at one point. But it moved out of public view, into long court proceedings and back rooms. Antitrust got technocrafied and lost touch with the public. And that passion has been redirected elsewhere. With Trump, you have him channeling that energy at immigrants, for example, saying that’s who people should be upset with for the state of things, when it should be this corporate concentration. And over the past 40 years, antitrust has fallen out of the Democrats’ agenda too.Yes.I think so, yeah. People are hungry for big ideas — American ideas — that explain what’s going on, and antitrust does that. I’m not a socialist; I don’t think government should just own industries. That didn’t work too well in the 20th century. I do believe that we should, you know, have public options available in certain markets, but we need to learn from history on that one.I don’t think the two have to be opposed. Let’s say you’re a nurse in a small city, and all the hospitals are owned by the same company, and your wages haven’t gone up in years. You’ve got two ways of addressing that. The hospitals aren’t competing against each other for workers, because they’re concentrated, so you break up that hospital chain and you have a more competitive environment for labor and your wages go up. Maybe you also want to organize a union to handle it from that angle. But they don’t need to be opposed.Well, they convinced us — and maybe themselves — that they had a different business model, that they were giving things away for free, that antitrust didn’t apply in the same ways. I include myself in this, because I was at the Federal Trade Commission at the time, and we didn’t know how to deal with these companies. But then you start seeing the same sort of standard anticompetitive corporate behavior. You have these mergers, you have Facebook eating up Instagram, eating up WhatsApp, and then, let’s say, humbling Snap. They’re back to the regular corporate model.We should distinguish it from something like Wikipedia, which is different, and they took the steps and made the decision to set it up as a nonprofit. And that affects how it works. With these other companies, I think what happened is these guys decided they had to be billionaires.That’s true. Look, these are not the evilest companies on earth. Okay, Facebook has had some moments. But Google isn’t using child slaves to mine diamonds. I’d rather we have companies that aspire to do good, or at least not to be evil, than not have that. I think what happened is people started to think they could do more good by working in tech than by joining the government, and tech starts recruiting the kind of people who work in government. But nobody gets a pass.Ha, you mean is the book a job application? No, no, it’s not. But yes, I do think the iconic trust-buster/octopus hunter should make a comeback. That character helps connect the public to antitrust work. Trump is complicated, because he connects with the public in that way, fighting against companies as sort of rivals, but it’s not reflected in the policy.On the record, I’ll just say that I’m happy to work with anyone who wants to focus on antitrust. I’m especially happy to work with anyone who wants to appoint federal judges who are interested in antitrust. Economic thinking has fallen out of how Democrats evaluate judges, and it would be good to see that return. We need some neo-Brandeisians on the courts.He won? That’s great! He’s a friend and another Obama administration vet.Very strong. The states are going to have to step up. I ran at the state level. If the federal government doesn’t do it, then the states are going to have to. And there’s precedent for that: Minnesota took on the railroad, and Texas took on Microsoft early. But these cases can cost a lot of money and take a long time. Companies can wait states out.No, I haven’t heard of that one. I guess it’s so much of my work life that when I relax, it’s not what I search for.Huh. I’ll have to do that.Mars, our neighboring red dot, has been the focus of human exploration for hundreds of years. Science fiction writers, scientists, and explorers alike have spent decades imagining what life would be like if humankind could pick up and move there. Never mind the radiation, lack of oxygen, and inhospitable atmosphere. According to some billionaires and scientists, Mars is our future.The private space industry has exploded, with companies like SpaceX, Blue Origin, and Virgin Galactic all designing spacecrafts to bring people to the cosmos and orbit the earth as tourists, or, in SpaceX’s case, to set up a massive settlement of humans on Mars.But the field of space exploration is at an ethical impasse.Let’s set aside for a moment the fact that space travel is difficult and risky, and that people could die on the journey. Critics of privatized space travel also take issue with the implications these companies are built on. What does it mean when a company makes it their goal to colonize an entire planet?The desire to become interplanetary harkens back to the 19th century, when colonizers believed it was their God-given right to expand out to the west and take over land and communities. The adoption of Mars as a second home is the Manifest Destiny of the 21st century. Even the language is problematic. “Colonize Mars” is one of the phrases private companies use most often to describe their grand plans. SpaceX sells a T-shirt that reads “Occupy Mars.”“These issues intersect with so many lessons that we have here on Earth, be it the rights of indigenous people or the way we even think about a wild environment,” says Lucianne Walkowicz, the Baruch S. Blumberg NASA Chair of Astrobiology at the Kluge Center, and astronomer at the Adler Planetarium who studies the ethics of Mars exploration.Throughout history, colonization has resulted in mass deaths, the spread of disease, and the decimation or suppression of native cultures. Yet these issues are rarely discussed among Mars colonization planners. Some think Mars is a dead planet, covered in a fine layer of rusty dirt, rocks, and some frozen water. But despite our constant and steady exploration of Mars over the past 50 years, it’s unknown whether life exists there, or ever did. “We don’t know whether there is a history that we could study there or learn about,” Walkowicz says. “We don’t know whether there is life under the surface. There could be microbial communities. There could be more complicated stuff. We just don’t know.”Space moguls like Elon Musk brush off the issue. During a panel interview at the annual American Geophysical Union meeting in 2015, Musk was asked about planetary protection measures. “I think the reality is that there isn’t any life on the surface of Mars,” he responded. “There may be microbial life deep underground, where it’s shielded from radiation and the cold. That’s a possibility, but in that case, anything we do on the surface is not going to have a big impact on the subterranean life.”Experts don’t necessarily agree with Musk’s view and argue that more research is needed before declaring that there’s nothing worth preserving on the planet.Mars remains an untouched environment. Landing hundreds of people on the surface would be the equivalent of walking into a controlled laboratory and dousing everything with grime and dirt. For space scientists, the experiment would be ruined. Not to mention the fact that humans don’t have a great track record when it comes to environmental preservation. The health of our own planet — one that has clean water, breathable air, and an atmosphere that keeps us alive — is in crisis. We’ve done a terrible job taking care of the Earth. Why would Mars be any different?The fact is that scientific exploration is not the goal for wannabe Mars dwellers, and issues related to space preservation largely fall to NASA. While companies like SpaceX work closely with the agency, their goals are not necessarily aligned. It is the job of NASA’s Office of Planetary Protection to promote responsible exploration of the solar system and protect any indigenous life form, even if it’s ancient and no longer alive. Walkowicz says she worries that the current administration may be too lenient, policy-wise, toward business interests.Musk and others stand by their intentions to transport humans to Mars as a way to save the species in case of a disaster, like an asteroid or the repercussions from a massive world war. If we are wiped out, at least we have some extra human stock on Mars. But this logic is flawed, Walkowicz says, because it is “spreading the idea that global annihilation due to an asteroid could happen at any moment.”“It injects an urgency into human beings going to Mars that doesn’t actually exist,” she adds. “They’re always talking about the asteroid strike or in a billion years the sun is going to expand and make the earth too hot. Nobody ever brings up climate change.”If there is going to be a backup plan for humanity, who gets to be backed up? Mars settlement plans are likely to be offered to a select group of people, like those who can afford a $200,000 ticket on a SpaceX rocket. Although Musk paints a picture of a comfortable space life, anyone who takes that journey should know the risks. They might not get to come back. Mars could become home to a lot of unhappy wealthy people.If we have a chance to do this all again, experts argue, we should be careful and put a lot more thought and consideration into both the ethics and logistics of sending people to Mars. As part of her Kluge fellowship, Walkowicz recently held a conference called Decolonizing Mars that brought together scientists, philosophers, writers, artists, ethicists, and engineers to begin discussions on alternative plans. Walkowicz says she isn’t totally against sending humans to Mars, but she thinks the prospect needs to be approached more inclusively. “There are certainly aspects of learning about Mars — both its present and its history — that are way more efficient if you have humans there locally,” she says. “So I think there are compelling scientific reasons for humans to go.”Mars is by no means a realistic backup plan for our survival. It is, however, a hot spot for scientific exploration. Those who dream of setting up large communities in the cosmos need to work in tandem with those who have different goals and perspectives.“Just because there are some multibillionaires who have ideas about how we should go to space,” Walkowicz says, “doesn’t mean that there aren’t a lot of us with other ideas.”I meet Christy Harrison in a crowded Brooklyn bar on the first night of summer in 2017. She’s an extremely pretty brunette with chic, angled bangs and a great navy-striped dress. There’s also something just a little bit guarded about her. As we talk over pork belly sandwiches, I decide it might be from knowing she appears to fit seamlessly into one mold — stylish, thin, healthy-food-oriented — when, in fact, she’s been working hard for many years now to build a different kind of reputation. “I was a food writer,” Christy says, “who was really struggling with food.”Christy was on staff at Plenty, a hip indie magazine that ran for a few years in the mid-2000s, and later at the iconic Gourmet magazine in the final two years before it folded in 2009. She wrote about organic farming, biodynamic wine, and the evils of processed foods. “Oh, and I definitely helped fan the flames of the gluten-free craze,” Christy tells me. She’s not proud of this. Because in between all those fancy press lunches, chef interviews, and junkets on organic farms, Christy was spiraling. What began as a diet in college turned into a full-blown eating disorder by her early twenties. “My symptoms never fit neatly into one eating-disorder diagnosis,” she explains. “I would move between restricting, bingeing, and over-exercising, over and over, but it was always sort of nebulous.” Christy can only see the patterns of her disorder now, in retrospect. At the time, she thought she was just “obsessed with food,” and really no different from anyone else around her.Christy and I didn’t know each other during those years, but her story is familiar. I know the world she inhabited, because I was at its periphery, as a junior health editor at the now defunct Organic Style magazine, and later, as the kind of freelance writer whom women’s magazines call when they need a piece on which types of produce are the most important to buy organic, or why you should learn to cook quinoa.On one freelance assignment in 2007, I found myself sitting at the bar of the famed farmhouse-chic restaurant Blue Hill at Stone Barns, in Pocantico Hills, New York. It was noon on a Wednesday and the restaurant was closed, but I was eating the most delicious salad of my life, hand-prepared by the celebrity chef Dan Barber with greens picked that morning from his greenhouse and wild mushrooms foraged from the forests around the farm.I was there doing research for a book with a woman who, at the time, was a little bit famous for her philanthropy and her extreme vegan politics. After we ate our salads, the waiter brought out a plate of fresh-baked chocolate chip cookies for dessert. “Are those made with white sugar?” she asked. “I think we’re all done.” I had only eaten six mushrooms and three handfuls of micro-greens. The cookies, the waiter explained, were made with fair trade dark chocolate and butter from a cow named Tallulah. The vegan demurred again, this time citing her sympathy for Tallulah. Her assistant and the restaurant’s publicist followed suit. I took the cookie. Even the waiter seemed surprised.Back then, I focused on eco-food issues because I thought that niche would help me avoid writing the kind of weight-loss stories that women’s magazines are so notorious for running every month. I wrote those, too — when you’re a broke freelance writer, there’s not much you won’t write about — but always with a degree of existential crisis and bargaining: I would write them for women’s magazines, but not for teen magazines. I would write one about the relationship between blood sugar and white sugar because that seemed scientific and important. But eventually, I stopped wanting to write any such stories; I hated trying to find definitive answers about weight loss when the science was constantly shifting. And I hated telling women how to make their bodies smaller when I didn’t really believe they should. And so I embraced the eco-food movement, because — on the surface, at least — it wasn’t about calorie counting or crash diets. It was okay to eat the cookie, I thought, as long as it was made with fair trade chocolate and local butter and eggs. But as I learned that day at Stone Barns, it still wasn’t okay to eat the cookie, no matter how sustainably sourced the ingredient list was.This is because the eco-food movement, also known as the eco-gastronomy or alternative-food movement, was busy embracing the war on obesity, joining the front lines of the fight. And food became something to categorize — whole or processed, real or fake, clean or dirty — and to fear. Pretty soon almost every food and health writer I knew was dropping gluten or white sugar from her diet, then bringing it back, then dropping something else. Now that trend has gone mainstream; even my 88-year-old grandmother knows what gluten is and why half her family isn’t eating it on any given day. And that’s because the early to mid-2000s represented a kind of cultural awakening around food, driven by the success of movies like Super Size Me and books like Fast Food Nation and The Omnivore’s Dilemma. To be a food journalist, especially in New York City, at the glossy magazines that Christy wrote for, meant that you had be up on who made the best artisanal iced coffee and designer cupcakes, but also on the latest research showing why we’re not really meant to digest dairy, or the differing omega-3 quantities of grass-fed and grain-fed beef. It all felt really important, as if we were on the verge of discovering a profound connection between nutrition, health, and the environment that nobody had ever seen quite that way before.Connecting all her food anxieties to a larger movement made Christy feel “like I wasn’t just this vain, selfish person trying to lose weight.” Suddenly, her obsession with food had a larger, nobler purpose. “I thought, ‘I can help change the landscape and make everyone healthier,’” she said. “There was some desire to be communal about it, a kind of social justice drive.” Giving up meat and gluten wasn’t dieting — it was a hard and virtuous life choice that would transform your health and boost your green street cred at the same time. But in the hands of those celebrity chefs, food activists, actresses turned health gurus, and the media who love them, “eating clean” involves trading one set of food rules for another. “Now, I think about how much I was struggling and so were all these other food writers I know,” Christy says. “We kept thinking we were finding answers. But really, we were participating in this mass marketing of disordered eating.”It took several more years before Christy came to that realization and began to think critically about the alternative-food movement and the “clean eating” craze that it helped to fuel. As a food writer, she continued to cycle between the extremes of her disorder. Because a big part of the job is going out to eat exotic, lavish meals, at some point, a food writer who doesn’t eat just starts to look weird. “But I’d compensate by restricting even more when I was on my own,” she notes. And when Gourmet folded in 2009, Christy was still deeply passionate about helping to spread the gospel of whole foods, so she decided to get her master’s in public health and become a dietitian.At first, studying nutrition all day only further entrenched Christy’s eating habits. She wanted to do well in school, and it seemed as if eating perfectly was part of being a model student. But one day in class, everyone was told to partner up and take each other’s body measurements. They got on scales, they wrapped tape measures around their waists, hips, and necks, and they used calipers to measure the fat on the undersides of their arms. Obsessively tracking body size in this way is the kind of thing that people with eating disorders do all the time; so much so that putting away the scale and the tape measure is often an essential first step in any treatment program.Although Christy was far from recovered, she had made enough progress to know how dangerous it was for her to obsess over numbers like these. But refusing to participate didn’t feel like an option. So, she wrote down all her measurements. Then she looked in the textbook to see how her numbers compared to the “ideal” weight for someone of her height and build. She was, as she puts it, “more than a few pounds” over the textbook limit. “At first, I panicked, like, ‘Okay, I’ve got to really double down and eat even better,’” Christy recalls. “Then I realized: the only time I’d been that small was when I was in the most intense restriction period of my eating disorder.” She was done. “That’s when I decided to just throw out that whole model of thinking about food and weight.”When I reported nutrition stories in the early 2000s, conventional dietitians were often rattled by the organic foodie approach, and kept pointing out the surprisingly high calorie count of foods like olive oil, quinoa, and almond butter. But over the past decade, the two camps have slowly merged. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics spokespeople whom I interviewed for Redbook and Runner’s World became more fluent in the language of clean eating. They began talking less about how to choose chicken breasts the size of a deck of cards, and more about the nutrient profiles of various nut butters and how to cook whole grains. Meanwhile, the newer generation of alternative foodies has become much more interested in things like protein and carbohydrate grams, and how many of each you should or shouldn’t eat per day. And one core philosophy has always united both approaches: That we are what we eat. That food is medicine. And that there is no problem — be it constipation, migraines, infertility, or cancer — that cannot be solved, or at least vastly ameliorated, by changing your diet.There is a kernel of truth in almost every one of these notions. The industrialization of agriculture and food production has led to an overabundance of high-calorie foods, many of which are marketed with a veneer of health because they’re “low carb” or “gluten-free,” while also being largely nutrient-free. Producing these foods causes significant environmental damage and involves the use of chemicals and ingredients that aren’t great for our health.The problems begin when we consider the corollaries to statements like “You are what you eat.” If that’s true, then eating “bad” foods (Big Macs, Slushies, anything made with white flour or sugar) makes you a bad person. Or at least an uninformed, undisciplined one. Organic farmers and food activists may have originally banded together to take on huge corporations within the agricultural-industrial complex. But infusing their arguments with messages about health has led to the rise of a wellness-industrial complex, in which nutritionists, personal trainers, cookbook authors, and other “alternative-health experts” target us for our individual choices.Alternative food and wellness are big business now. The Amazon-Whole Foods deal was worth $13.7 billion. Sales of old-school diet staples like Lean Cuisine meals may have dropped by $100 million between 2014 and 2015, but expensive, largely organic meal-delivery services like Blue Apron generated close to $1.5 billion in sales in 2016. The Global Wellness Institute, a nonprofit based in Miami, Florida, which conducts industry research, calculates that the worldwide “wellness economy” is now worth $3.7 trillion. They attribute $999 billion of that to beauty and anti-aging products, and another $648 billion to “healthy eating, nutrition, and weight loss.” And the marketing around these products and services is just as powerful as any fast-food ad campaign.We are now so certain that every aspect of our health can be improved through diet, we can only blame ourselves when those diets fail. When cutting out gluten doesn’t work, we move on to dairy, then soy. When we still don’t feel better, we start reading about the evils of nightshade vegetables or peanuts. Still feel bloated, or tired, or lacking in energy — all impossible-to-quantify symptoms that may just reflect the unavoidable state of being mortal and not part superhero? Probably it’s because you weren’t careful enough about that gluten. Nutrition has become a permanently unsolvable Rubik’s Cube. So, we read more books, pin more blog posts, buy more products, and sign up for more classes and consultations. And we don’t realize how many of the so-called experts guiding us through this new and constantly changing landscape are exactly where Christy once was — fighting their own battles with food.Today, Christy still works as a dietitian, but she has dramatically revamped her practice. She worked in-house at two eating-disorder recovery centers in the New York area, and now coaches private clients, people who have gotten caught up in our culture-wide fixation with dieting and detoxes, and want to find a way out. She also hosts a weekly podcast, Food Psych, in which she interviews other dietitians, therapists, and people in the wellness industry who are trying to fight back against what Christy alternately refers to as “diet culture” or “the thin ideal.” Food Psych is well ranked on iTunes’ list of the Top 100 Health Podcasts, but when you look at the rest of the list — with names like Half Size Me, Livin’ La Vida Low-Carb, and Vegan Body Revolution — you realize just how hard this thing is that Christy is trying to do.You may have noticed that Porter County, Indiana still had 0 percent reporting for the 2018 election as of Friday morning. In the map below, Porter is that gray county in the upper left. I was a poll worker there this past Tuesday.Buckle up, because nothing in this story goes according to plan.This was my first year as a poll worker. My husband signed up with me. I was a poll clerk and my husband was an election judge (responsible for checking IDs at the door, helping with the scanners, and delivering ballots to the courthouse at the end of the day). We were excited to do our part to ensure every eligible voter in our county was allowed to cast a ballot. Yay, democracy!Our excitement started to wane when we weren’t trained. We emailed multiple times to ask about training. We were repeatedly told we would be trained soon. Finally, on October 26, after we’d practically begged over email to be trained, the county set up classes. However, they made it very difficult for poll workers to attend. Classes were announced at the last minute or were only offered during the workday. Due to the inconvenient and inflexible timing of these classes, I was unable to make any of the in-person training sessions. Instead, I watched the county’s online training videos and thoroughly studied the training manuals.I learned that each precinct has two judges and two clerks, one from each party. They’re there to ensure fairness. An inspector (a.k.a., the boss) is appointed from the leading party in each county. In theory, it’s very balanced. If anything, I’m glad I volunteered because I was able to see how elections work.Before I describe the shit show that was election day, I’ll note that everyone at the polling location was kind and there for one reason only — to make sure every single eligible person had the opportunity to vote. Democrats and Republicans worked together. The Republican inspector was fantastic. Honestly, it was inspiring.However, when we showed up at 5 a.m. on Election Day, we noticed many of the required election officials were missing. Two inspectors were M.I.A., and so were the ballots. We also didn’t have the required Republican and Democratic counterparts for each position. Less than an hour before the election was to start, we were unable to open — let alone guarantee a fair election. The only inspector who was there began making calls.The rest of us did what we could to get ready with limited supplies and people. At 6 a.m., the ballot boxes weren’t working. Inspectors were still M.I.A. We couldn’t open. My stomach sank. I was trying to do something good and now I’d probably be on local evening news.Finally, a sheriff’s deputy showed up with two suitcases full of ballots. (I originally mentioned on Twitter that he showed up after 6, but my husband said he thought it was actually shortly before 6. It was a hectic morning, and I apologize for the initial error.) We were still missing the required Republican and Democratic counterparts for each polling position so we improvised. We combined positions between the three precincts present and opened the polls at 6:12.Whew, right? Not even close. It just got worse.Shortly after we opened, voters from a fourth precinct started to show up. The newspaper had listed four precincts at our location. We knew nothing about this, and we had zero workers or ballots for a fourth precinct (we barely had what we needed for the three precincts we knew about).I wasn’t about to let these people just walk away without getting a chance to vote, so I got on the phone and started making calls. I tried the election and voter registration office numbers. All lines were busy. I finally tried the state election hotline and was able to reach someone. They informed me that the fourth precinct was not supposed to be at my polling place. So, I began sending those voters to the right address.The clerk’s office had listed the wrong address online. The newspaper used that misinformation in their election article. The Chesterton Tribune later published a correction:Everything should have been okay then, right? Uh, no.I soon learned the new location for the fourth precinct wasn’t open. Poll workers were in the parking lot, locked out. So, they turned voters away. Voters — many of whom I’d turned away — started coming back to our location, desperate to vote. I finally reached someone at the local level and told them about the locked polling location. By this time, it was 6:56 a.m. (nearly an hour after polls opened), and the official I spoke to was hearing about this issue for the first time.It was later reported that the locked location opened at 7:45 a.m., along with eleven other locations in the county that opened at least an hour late. That doesn’t even include locations like ours that opened approximately 15 minutes late.The courts got involved. The Democrats’ lawyers wanted to extend hours at those locations to make up for the late openings. Republicans fought it, originally saying an extension would be unfair (later, according to local media, they claimed the court did not have legal authority to extend voting hours). Thankfully, the state judge ordered the extended hours.But again, this was still not over.Around noon, we were told to expect a delivery of absentee ballots to count and include in our precinct’s vote total. We waited. Hours went by. No absentee ballots.The inspector started making phone calls. By now, it was 5 p.m. and there were still no absentee ballots. This may not seem like a big deal, but we’re talking about 15,000 or so absentee ballots across the county. All of them were supposed to be opened by me and the other clerks. We were supposed to look up every absentee voter in the poll book of registered voters, make sure they hadn’t voted in person, and mark them down as an absentee voter in the poll book. All of these absentee ballots were M.I.A. When 6 p.m. arrived, local officials told us to close without any absentee ballots. The inspector and the judges locked up the regular ballots and took them to the courthouse to be processed.When my husband, an election judge, arrived at the courthouse, he was told he couldn’t leave. Deputies were driving around the county in an attempt to deliver absentee ballots, but they were reporting that polling locations were closed. Apparently, no one could leave until the absentee ballots arrived and were counted. It was all very confusing.At this point, I put on my coat and was about to head to the courthouse myself to help count the absentee ballots. It didn’t matter that I had just worked for 13 hours. I was ready to finish my job. As I was walking out the door, my husband texted me to say I wasn’t allowed to help. Something about “chain of custody”? Whatever the reason, I was told I should stay home.Meanwhile, chaos was breaking out at the courthouse. People were worried about what happened to those absentee ballots while they were missing. Was the election compromised? Word spread that the absentees wouldn’t be counted, but instead would be marked as provisional ballots. Early voters were afraid they had possibly thrown their votes away. Local social media blew up. I tried to keep people informed, but I only knew what I saw and what I heard from my husband. The courts weighed in again to sort it out, ruling that all ballots (including absentee ballots) should be counted and included in the final results.At the same time, races were called. People in my county saw winners announced and knew their votes were sitting in a squad car somewhere, unable to affect the race at all.Lawyers and the courts (and now the FBI) are figuring out what happened in Porter County on November 6, 2018. They’ve reassured us that everything will be thoroughly investigated. We’ve been told that processes will be changed so this never happens again. Porter County’s election results have just been released, but the damage has already been done.It’s one thing to see a race called with 50 percent of your precinct reported. Your vote could have been in that 50 percent. Yes, technically, your vote could have been in the half not yet counted, but still, you can believe your vote mattered, even if your candidate didn’t win.It’s a completely different thing to know that your vote couldn’t possibly have mattered due to the incompetence of your local government. To know that officials in charge of the election did such a shoddy job that your ballot was sitting uncounted in a box in the trunk of a squad car as the rest of the country made critical decisions about its future.Officials in charge of this election weren’t equipped to do their job. They didn’t train us. They were short staffed. They broke multiple election laws, and I’m not sure they’ll ever be held accountable.Note: Elections in our county used to be run by an election board. This year, they voted to have the County Clerk’s office run it instead. The County Clerk was one of the deciding votes that made the change happen. That County Clerk, who was now in charge of this election, was on the ballot for County Auditor. Thankfully, she lost. Officials are now asking her to resign.It’s an unspoken downside of innovation: Sometimes a push into new technology can leave certain people behind. Ideas like virtual reality, touchscreens, and 3D television might promise new experiences for most of us. But for people with disabilities, they can mean motion sickness, muscle pain, or worse.This innovation-disability gap is a major problem in video games, and one company is doing a particularly bad job dealing with it. While Nintendo rides high on the success of its new Switch console, people with disabilities struggle to enjoy the company’s games. These gamers complain of trouble navigating hits like Super Mario Odyssey — if they can play the games at all — because they’re packed with fiddly interactions requiring a flick of the wrist or sensitivity to a controller’s vibrations. Nintendo didn’t reply to a request for comment before deadline.These problems with the Switch have actually plagued the company’s products for years. The company’s Wii console, launched way back in 2006, also relied on innovative motion controls that shut some people out of the system — ironic, because the Wii was supposedly designed around accessibility.Super Mario inventor Shigeru Miyamoto wanted to make a game controller that got away from the complicated buttons, sticks, and triggers you might find on a typical gaming joypad. Aware that nongamers might be intimidated by something like the standard Xbox 360 controller, Miyamoto created the Wii remote with an accessible design “that would make people want to pick it up and try using it.”The remote ended up being painted in glossy iPod white, had few buttons to press, and looked like a stylish TV remote. But the secret ingredient was a motion-sensitive chip that could translate swipes, wiggles, points, and shakes into gameplay on the screen.Suddenly, playing a golf game was as intuitive as holding the controller like the handle of a putter and swinging it toward the TV. The Wii remote could magically transform into a tennis racket or baseball bat, a conductor’s baton or a musical instrument, a sword or a pistol.This opened up gaming to a whole new audience, just like Miyamoto dreamed. There were stories about Wii bowling leagues in retirement homes and reports about the console showing up in Buckingham Palace and Obama’s White House.But for those with certain disabilities, the Wii remote proved to be completely inaccessible.Riley Park, 28, told Medium that he’s always loved Nintendo games. The first console his family owned was the Nintendo 64, and they kept playing with it until the Wii came out in 2006. But around that time, Park was diagnosed with essential tremors, a nerve disorder that causes parts of your body, usually your hands, to shake uncontrollably.“Small movements really cause my hands to shake, to the point where I sometimes require both hands to hold onto a spoon,” Park said. This made gaming with a motion-sensitive controller very difficult.“I had continual problems,” he explained. “Whenever any game required you to hold the remote in a certain still position for a time, like with Mario Party or the Rabbids party game, I often failed those. I sort of stopped playing games that were like that entirely, especially around friends.”The success of the Wii inspired other companies to dabble with controllers that created hardships for people with disabilities. In 2010, Microsoft launched the body-sensing Kinect camera for Xbox, which Wired memorably dubbed a “Wii-too product.” With games like Dance Central, it asked players to flail about, swing their arms up and down, and generally make massive fools of themselves. Needless to say, that was practically impossible for gamers with any number of physical disabilities.Years later, companies would launch virtual reality headsets like the Oculus Rift. These technological marvels can leave people with inner-ear conditions like vestibular neuritis feeling queasy.And when online multiplayer games started introducing voice chat, they left gamers who were deaf unable to communicate with team members.Though innovations like the Kinect could largely be ignored, all of Nintendo’s recent consoles have focused on technical gimmicks that exclude players with physical disabilities. If you want to fully enjoy some of the most popular games on the Switch, you will have to deal with motion controls.Hannah Wooffitt, 24, lives with chronic fatigue syndrome, and being bed-bound for multiple years has caused her muscles to atrophy. “Nintendo’s motion controls are my enemy,” she said.“My boyfriend loves Nintendo games, but there are few multiplayer games that I can actually play,” she added. “He was excited for a new Mario Party on the Switch in the hopes we could play it together, but when he bought it, we quickly found out that it was motion controls only, so that was the end of that.”Super Mario Odyssey, the latest entry in the long-running franchise, is littered with similar problems. The bombastic adventure locks many of its special moves behind motion controls. If you want to launch your buddy Cappy at enemies like a homing missile, for example, you need to frantically shake the controller (or, if you’re playing in handheld mode, the entire system).“I love Odyssey, but I have found some of the advanced spins and jumps nearly impossible to do,” Park said. Wooffitt ended up having to watch her boyfriend play the game rather than enjoy it with him.You can’t turn off those motion-powered moves, leading a gamer with Parkinson’s to rant on Reddit: “Is it possible to not throw Cappy every three seconds when your hands shake like a fucking washing machine on spin cycle?”There’s a lot Nintendo could do to fix these problems. It routinely has basic commands tied to wiggling a controller, like pounding on the floor in Donkey Kong, pirouetting in Mario Galaxy, or swinging a sword in Twilight Princess. These moves could easily be triggered by a button press, if only there were an option to do so.And if you look beyond Nintendo games, you’ll find that gaming is more accessible than ever, as game makers have figured out how to make them work with different disabilities.The addition of symbols in the color-swapping puzzler Hue make the game playable even for people who are color-blind. Fortnite helps people who have trouble hearing with an option that translates the sounds of footsteps and gunshots into visual indicators. Both PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, the two major rivals to the Nintendo Switch, let you change which buttons do what across the entire console.Best of all is Microsoft’s new Adaptive Controller for Xbox One and the PC. This cool bit of customizable equipment can clamp onto wheelchairs and hook up to all manner of accessible inputs like foot controllers, one-handed joysticks, and easy-to-press switches.But while the controller can even work on PlayStation consoles and Macs (with the right adapters), “the only place it does not work is with any Nintendo consoles,” said Steven Spohn, chief operating officer at AbleGamers, a charity that advocates for gamers with disabilities.Spohn worked with Microsoft on its Adaptive Controller but said Nintendo has “repeatedly declined to work with us.”“It breaks my heart every time someone with a disability emails me excitedly, claiming they are getting a Nintendo Switch, and they want to know how to make it accessible, because nine times out of 10, we can’t make it any more accessible,” he said.Nintendo has offered some good accessibility options in certain games. Beat ’em up ARMS lets you completely customize the game’s controls. Colorful shooter Splatoon 2 is considerate of color-blind gamers. 1–2 Switch’s hyperdetailed rumble feedback makes it playable for gamers who are blind. Back in the 1980s, the company even came up with a bizarre-looking hands-free controller that made the NES playable for gamers who are quadriplegic.But overall, in 2018, Nintendo is lagging far behind other gaming companies that haven’t had to leave gamers with disabilities behind in the pursuit of innovation and hardware gimmickry. If Nintendo truly believes in its mission to make gaming more accessible to everyone, it needs to work much harder.In a marginally better anticlimax than most M. Night Shyamalan plot twists, reports indicate that Amazon has decided to split its HQ2 between Long Island City, New York, and Arlington, Virginia. Mercifully, Amazon’s grand quest to use the starry-eyed idealism of mid-market politicians as a tax-evasion bargaining chip against NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio and Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam is finally over. New York is getting 25,000 more sweaty bodies on the rush hour 7 train while Arlington will have lunchtime lines at Sweetgreen that stretch into the Pentagon parking lot.Overall, the HQ2 hoopla was a brilliantly executed PR stunt that was created to keep Amazon constantly at the top of American consumers’ minds in a narrative that it squarely controls. HQ2 provided Amazon with millions of dollars of free earned media and a cover for everything from its warehouse workers peeing in bottles to a precipitously quiet 20 percent decline in its stock price. Along the way, it taught us a lot about the paradox of effectively reporting on and talking about Amazon.As the world’s largest online retailer, the current No. 3 media company in the U.S., a dominant force in cloud computing, and the single-largest corporate influence on the U.S. economy, nearly everything that Amazon does or says is “news.” But staying focused on which of Amazon’s announcements are actually newsworthy and deserving of analysis while Amazon continues dropping flying drone warehouse red herrings is near impossible.South Africa’s premier investigative journalism outfit calls itself AmaBhungane, Zulu for “dung beetles,” in a proud acknowledgment that the literal function of media is to sift through shit so that the rest of us don’t have to. Thus, the more shit you throw at journalists, the tougher the job becomes. And, arguably, no American entity outside of the White House creates more news than Amazon.On the same day that Amazon’s double HQ2 was leaked (and one day before the most important midterm election of our lifetime), the company announced free shipping during the holidays, introduced a program to hire its own drivers, and said that it would no longer host booksellers from South Korea, Hungary, and other nations. Good luck trying to analyze any of those things in-depth for a story on deadline. Thinning newsrooms lack the resources to dig every signal, so they’re forced to publish a hell of a lot of unfiltered noise.For example, the grapevine chatter last month that Amazon was “considering” opening 3,000 Go stores spurred weeks of speculation about Amazon’s impending invasion of brick-and-mortar retail stores from nearly every major American media outlet. But here’s the rub: Every company is “considering” doing anything at any given time. Faux announcements like this create an anti-competitive advantage for Amazon by taking real value out of companies. Whether or not Amazon explicitly intends to, the company blatantly manipulates the market simply by issuing press releases, and reporters are willing participants.The risk here is that when Amazon sneezes, the entire retail sector catches tuberculosis. Stitch Fix’s stock slid 20 percent upon the announcement of Amazon Scout, a service that is initially focused on home design and that, in its current iteration, actually presents no discernible threat to Stitch Fix’s business model. As any Amazon action produces an equal and opposite reaction, covering unsubstantiated Amazon rumors is dangerous business.There’s also a tendency in media to overestimate the magnitude of any statistic that has to do with Amazon. A figure like 3,000 convenience stores sounds like a paradigm-shifting amount until you consider that 7-Eleven has 11,000 stores in Thailand alone. Consistently, Amazon’s market capitalization is erroneously conflated with GDP (the correct framework would be to compare Amazon’s revenue with GDP), creating an archive of incorrect assertions that Amazon is more valuable than the aforementioned Thailand. Ultimately, this contributes to a self-fulfilling prophecy. Because Amazon is so big, any tactical action it takes is immediately declared to be game-changing. The flood of (often superficial) media coverage then takes off, essentially providing a windfall of free marketing for the everything store.As many of Amazon’s big-tech compatriots come under increased scrutiny, Amazon has a key trump card that keeps the public sentiment largely in its favor. CEO Jeff Bezos is a brilliant writer and a maestro of a storyteller, capable of seducing the tech media with his prose. You can learn more about the fundamentals of business by reading a single Amazon letter to shareholders than you do in most MBA programs. As a result, these letters are religiously quoted verbatim by reporters, allowing Bezos to directly define how his company is portrayed in the media.Combine the scale of news created by Amazon, the dearth of reporters covering retail markets, and a CEO who is the biggest walking sound bite since Yogi Berra, and you have a company whose control of its public perception is unprecedented. And as a company that can bend the global economy to its will, Amazon should be subject to far more in-depth investigation and scrutiny. The grand strategy that Bezos chooses to pursue will largely set the agenda on Wall Street and Main Street and may well impose more tangible effects on many Americans than what happens at the polls.Going beyond the scattershot headlines, here are the five Amazon stories that are really worth following, each with existential consequences for the U.S. economy and society.At its core, Amazon is simply a search engine with a gargantuan fulfillment center attached to it. While the exact number varies depending on the survey, nearly every major U.S. media outlet has gone on record stating that 50 to 55 percent of product searches begin on Amazon. The subtext is that Amazon, amid its myriad other competitive advantages, has displaced Google as the world’s most valuable search engine.However, the studies that support Amazon’s dominance in product searches omit a key detail: Not all product searches are created equal. Amazon currently owns transactional searches but has struggled to displace Google when consumers are still researching what they want to buy. (But don’t expect Amazon to live with that status quo for much longer.)In understanding who will win the future of commerce,no single metric is more important than the genesis of product search. In Forbes, former Target executive Chris Walton says that product searches will be the “leading indicators that will predict who will thrive in the new era of retail. First product search trends, not quarterly store or digital sales performance, over time, will better highlight true staying power.”Longer term, Google has an existential decision to make: Should it continue to be the conduit for other retailers to compete against Amazon, or should it invest heavily in transforming its business to become an e-commerce fulfillment engine of its own? While there are strong arguments for each, Google so far has focused on the former, a win for Fortune 500 retailers and small e-commerce shops alike. But with billions in cash on hand, Google is just an Instacart or Shopify acquisition away from rapidly altering the paradigm of e-commerce and taking on Amazon more aggressively.More than any other head-to-head clash among tech titans, the battle for product search supremacy will have far-reaching implications across how Americans spend their money. Buckle up for the great search wars to come.The reason Apple became the first company with a trillion-dollar valuation is painstakingly simple; they owned the millennium’s first trillion-dollar innovation. And Amazon is best positioned to own the next.Reports that only 2 percent of customers had made a purchase via Alexa have caused the market to sleep on the pending revolution in how we interact with our devices. At its essence, voice is a more natural medium for humans than typing, particularly on a five-inch interface, which is a learned action. The iPhone essentially has reprogrammed human behavior, driving trillions of dollars in market shifts in the process. Voice can take us back to a more natural state and cause similarly seismic shifts.The caveat is that unlike Apple and the iPhone, Amazon doesn’t have to wait for the traditional adoption curve; it can force the issue by subtly inserting voice technology into our daily lives. Amazon is beginning to embed Alexa into everyday devices, starting with the prodigal microwave. While many consumers have chosen not to invite Alexa into their homes, they may now do so unknowingly when they use Amazon to buy a simple household appliance. Across the U.S., 13 million microwaves are sold every year—a bounty of opportunity for Big Brother.Think again about product searches. In 10 years, the dominant medium for them will be instructing your Alexa or Google Home, “Buy me the best headphones for running.” In response, your device will output a highly curated result full of expert recommendations, consumer reviews, and the most competitive price. While it’s hardly the aesthetic or tactile experience that many love about shopping, voice commands could set a new standard for convenience. Without the visual interface to shop around and compare prices, the voice medium is inherently susceptible to dominance by one platform.Whether that platform is one that directly sells you goods (Amazon) or directs you to other merchants (Google) will determine the overall competitiveness of the retail ecosystem of the 2020s.By the end of the year, Amazon will have brought in $10 billion in annual advertising revenue. For context, the (thriving) New York Times makes about $200 million per year off digital ads, meaning that the retailer makes 50 times as much money selling ads as our nation’s premier newspaper.But with its advertising business, Amazon is collecting something far more valuable than just immediate cash payoff: data. The moment brands choose to sell on the Amazon marketplace, they begin handing Amazon the blueprint for how to put them out of business. Listing products on Amazon leads to a plethora of information on exactly what sells, and paying Amazon to sponsor a given product tosses kerosene on the data inferno.For example, Levi’s is one of many iconic brands aggressively ramping up its spending on Amazon. But will Americans still value Levi’s 150 years of brand equity when Amazon launches its own label of blue jeans that also make your butt look great and cost half the price? The $64,000 question is how Amazon will choose to use all this data. Will they try to move us toward a brandless society, building hundreds of thousands of AmazonBasics and Amazon Essentials? Or will Amazon decide that its long-term best interest is not to displace too many of the merchants that sell products on its platform?Despite the deluge of merchandising data it is collecting, Amazon’s ardent embrace of advertising looks a bit murky amid its overall grand strategy. It’s the classic platform play—once you control consumer attention, monetize it by any means possible. Put another way, by being obsessively customer-centric for two decades, Amazon can now sacrifice UX for new buckets of money because it’s too powerful to stop.About 17 percent of search results presented to the user on Amazon are sponsored by the brand, allowing the company to directly monetize one in six products shown to shoppers on its website. For comparison, roughly 1 to 2 percent of search results on Target, Walmart, and other large multi-brand retailers are sponsored. While this strategy adds high-margin revenue for Amazon, it is billion-dollar wise and trillion-dollar foolish. Amazon made it this far by relentlessly focusing on customers and pursuing long-term customer-centricity over short-term profit opportunity. A feed in which one in five products is an ad is a direct rebuke of that ethos.In the next decade, Amazon will transform online media by displacing Facebook as the primary aggregator of content. Amazon already has such an affinity for content that in the early 2000s, the company was paying writers to create reviews of products it didn’t even carry yet, realizing that investing in quality content would make the website a destination. In a nutshell, an e-commerce company conceptually saw the power in hosting content online before media companies did.In a similar vein, 65 percent of all affiliate links on outlets such as Wirecutter, CNET, Best Products, and BuzzFeed direct to Amazon. These are relationships that Amazon has cultivated since the genesis of these sites that effectively turn prestigious publishers into content marketers for our largest retailer. But Amazon won’t stop there. It’s only a matter of time before Amazon cuts out the middleman (Google) and decides to host publisher content about products directly on its platform. Doing so would make Amazon’s search experience far more compelling while also providing additional revenue for commerce publishers. Some publications will hold out on tying their fate to another large technology platform, but the vast majority will welcome the additional distribution.And if Amazon succeeds at hosting commerce content on its platform, why not take a crack at hosting all publisher content on Amazon? While its traffic is dwarfed by Facebook, Amazon receives more monthly visits than the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, and CNN combined. Right now, a few companies’ algorithms pick and choose exactly what consumers see, and they’re frankly doing an awful job of it. Why shouldn’t Bezos think he can do better? Five years ago, he bought a venerable newspaper that had just laid off more than 40 reporters. This week, that same paper announced 13 new reporting roles, including perhaps the most ironic job in the U.S.From a content-serving perspective, Amazon has already built the most sophisticated recommendation algorithms for commerce—IP that can be repurposed for content personalization. First teased by Nicholas Negroponte in the mid-1980s, the personalized newspaper is an idea that bubbles up as a possible savior of journalism every five years or so only to crash spectacularly. But despite its repeated failures in practice, the concept has unrealized commercial appeal if done correctly. Bytedance, a company best known for building a news aggregator and content personalization engine, is valued at $75 billion, making it the most valuable startup in the world.From a monetization perspective, pivoting to subscriptions is the name of the game in media, and Amazon is already running a successful subscription business. If anyone can convince you to pay for news, it is probably Amazon. Or it could choose to make any local newspaper free for Prime members, absorbing the losses as a pure philanthropic service to democracy. Making $1 million in profit every hour affords a lot of creative flexibility. Imagine it’s 2025, and folding local news into Amazon Prime has become the lifeline that bailed out hundreds of daily newspapers.If this all sounds hyperbolic and apocalyptic, it is. But benevolent billionaires may prove to be the best of so many bad options for supporting local and investigative journalism. No billionaire is better equipped to pick up the mantle than the man who redefined publishing, saved the Washington Post, and has generally mastered any business built around the art of the written word.It’s not every day that a paper somebody wrote in law school earns them cult-hero status. Yet, that’s precisely what happened when Lina Khan published “Amazon’s Antitrust Paradox” in the Yale Law Journal, earning her a profile in the New York Times and sending off a wave of salon chatter about the peril of modern monopolies.However, despite the rise of “hipster antitrust,” there is still no real political groundswell that Bezos should lose sleep over. Believing that Amazon should be checked with antitrust has yet to cross from Silicon Valley intelligentsia to mainstream zeitgeist. For all the compelling arguments about Amazon’s market power, nobody has yet answered a simple question: How the hell do you break up a firm that most consumers love? Just this week, Amazon effectively made Santa Claus real by announcing free delivery for holiday shoppers. That this ultimately falls on the backs of mail and delivery people, making their job hellish, is still of little concern to most shoppers.In the most significant midterm election in decades, there isn’t a single political hopeful making antitrust a core tenet of their platform. Rather than creating political pressure from both sides, the ideological alignment between Donald Trump and liberals on this has created an uneasy gridlock that makes it hard to fathom any meaningful action being taken against Amazon under the current administration.In time, this will change. When Sears ruled the retail world, the entire Sears workforce reaped the bounty of its success, greatly bolstering the middle class. The Amazon era, however, has mostly enriched an exclusive club of executives and institutional shareholders. I may be insanely naïve, but I think the political scene will normalize a bit after 2020, and someone (likely unknown to the American public at the moment) will rise on the left to combine modern progressivism with old-school Democratic flair. Imagine the personification of Bruce Springsteen’s Wrecking Ball album combining shameless support for unions with marked disdain for uber-wealth. Breaking up big tech on behalf of workers—more so than for consumers—would be an anchor point of this platform.There are signs that Amazon can no longer control its own shadow. Last month, the retailer increased its minimum wage to $15, a move widely regarded as a net benefit to society. But it comes with massive externalities and unanswered questions. What happens to the fabric of a city when it’s suddenly more lucrative to be an Amazon warehouse worker than a paramedic? Expect questions like this to enter the mainstream as Amazon swallows more and more of the country’s enterprise and becomes one of the defining political stories of the next decade.Add all this up, and there really is only one Amazon story. Amazon is a company beyond the reach of the invisible hand, unthreatened by people who buy their ink by the barrel, and is no longer held accountable to the public. Amazon is the consummate triumph of U.S. capitalism, ultimately bound to become the case study for the danger of the system’s unchecked excess.Our health is a combination of genetics and environment. Maybe someone’s genes make them vulnerable to high blood pressure, for example, but by watching what they eat — in effect, controlling their body’s environment — they can keep their numbers within normal levels.Right now, we know a lot about the genetics side of this combination, as an explosion of research has yielded incredible detail about people’s genetic profiles. We also have insight into how our internal bacterial environments — the microbiome — impact our health. But the environmental piece of the puzzle is still fuzzy. We don’t measure all the chemicals we encounter each day, from the microscopic fungi on a walk to the car exhaust on a highway.That is, most people don’t.Michael Snyder, a Stanford biologist and pioneer in genomics, does. For the past several years, Snyder has been wearing a device he invented that measures the environment around him. It’s part of his quest to learn how the environment impacts our health by studying what he calls people’s “exposomes,” or the various air particles, pollutants, viruses, and more that we come into contact with each day.In a recent paper in the journal Cell, Snyder and his colleagues describe what they’ve learned from affixing 15 people with these air-monitoring devices for up to 890 days. Each device is about the size of a big matchbox, and contains filters that trap particulates, chemicals, and microbes from the air around it. Medium talked to Snyder about the study, the exposome, and his own self-monitoring discoveries.Michael Snyder: Yes. The monitoring started when I was doing genome sequencing and other profiles — like gene expression — on myself, 8 years ago. I was using myself as a test subject to get the technology going — I didn’t know I’d be interesting! Then I got diabetes. My genome predicted it, and I got the disease over the course of this profiling. These types of measurements helped me catch the onset of the disease and gave a much more detailed picture of people’s health.With these techniques — like regular testing of blood for changes in gene expression and other readouts — we’re following a group of 109 folks now, many of them for four-and-a-half years or longer. We added wearables about five years ago to continuously monitor physiology, things like heart rate and blood oxygen levels. It helped me figure out when I got Lyme disease, actually. I was with my brother in rural Massachusetts putting up fences, and two weeks later I flew to Norway. When you fly, your blood oxygen levels will drop, but they usually recover after you land. Mine didn’t. And my heart rate was abnormally high. I got a low-grade fever and went to a doctor, who told me I had a bacterial infection. I told him I thought it was Lyme. He recommended penicillin, but I said I think I need doxycycline, which is what you take for Lyme. I measured myself when I got home, and sure enough, I was Lyme positive. It was a perfectly controlled experiment, because I’d given blood before I left and I was negative then.We want to bring big data into health; that’s the motivation. I think the way we do medicine now is very primitive, compared to what it could be. Everybody is focused on disease, but we want to focus on health and transitions to disease. We’ve written algorithms based on the data we’ve collected, and we now think we tell can when you get sick before you realize it, because your heart rate goes up. We’ve shown that on myself and three other people. We’re now trying to set up a 1,000-person study to learn more.That area has been a big hole. We know you’re affected by your genes and your environment, but nobody is capturing the environment individually. Nobody carries around something on their sleeve to monitor their exposure.We took a standard high-end air monitor and re-engineered it. The monitor has a pump that sucks up about one-fifteenth of the air you breathe. We put a submicron filter on the monitor to collect all the particulates in the air. Under that we have a cartridge with a chemical absorbent. We take that filter and elute off the particulates, and sequence, incredibly deeply, the DNA and RNA that’s there. Then we match it up against a custom database with 40,000 species of microorganisms, viruses, plants, and animals. We can see exactly what you’re getting exposed to from the biological side. Then from the chemical absorbent, we elute that off and run it through a mass spectrometer. We see all the chemical structures.The study has just over two years of data on the biologicals; the chemicals we did for only a few months, but nonetheless we learned a ton.The first thing we learned is the exposome is vast. There were more than 2,000 species, from bacteria to my pet guinea pig, registered during my own two years of profiling. Even the guy or gal who wore it for three months for the study was exposed to over 1,000 species. There were close to 3,000 chemical features detected in the whole study.Second is that the exposome is dynamic. It varies a lot. How much of the variation is regional or seasonal? For the part we could figure out, location is the number one factor, especially for the chemicals. The time of year is another important factor. We sampled four people living in the Bay Area — me, and people in Sunnyvale, Redwood City, and San Francisco. We profiled them over the same month, and everybody’s different. The person in San Francisco had sewer sludge bacteria in their samples; there are definitely parts of San Francisco that don’t smell so good. Every time I go to Monterey, I get a fungal exposure. Location really matters.DEET is everywhere, which surprised me; it was in all the samples. There’s a few carcinogens, like the solvent diethylene glycol. A limitation of our study is we don’t know the absolute amounts of exposures; we know relative amounts. That’s something we are working on to pin down. This was really just a survey to see generally what we are exposed to.Right, that was interesting. Pyridine is a nasty chemical. But you can argue this certain ways. If you are very allergic to fungi, which some people are, maybe for them it’s good to have pyridine, although that is a different potentially detrimental exposure.This is not in the paper, but there’s some correlation with health. We’re still trying to sort this all out.Your eosinophils — a type of white blood cell — are actually a measure of allergic response. We can correlate my eosinophils with what exposures are out there. I thought I was probably most allergic to pine, but the correlation was actually better with eucalyptus. One in five Americans has allergies or asthma. It’s useful to know what triggers this.In California, I’m in eucalyptus heaven! I’m not going to cut down a eucalyptus tree, although if a tree ever had to go in my yard that would be the first one to go. Chemical exposures you could try to track and get rid of.We’re going to get these devices on more people — we will try to get inexpensive devices — just to get this out there so lots of people can do this. Ultimately, we have to take samples and analyze them offline. That will be true for a while. But once we figure out what might be most impactful on people’s health, then we’ll try to set up real-time personal monitors for those things.I would argue this is the first map of the human exposome, like the first genome map. We see what’s there, and then we try to understand how it affects your health. As we get more devices out, we will be able to make more associations between allergies and exposures. It would take long-term monitoring to understand the effects of toxins. But I do think we need that data.Finding treatments for Alzheimer’s disease is simultaneously one of the most pressing and difficult tasks in medicine today. Between 2000 and 2015, the number of deaths resulting from Alzheimer’s has shot up by 123 percent. Today, around one in 10 people over age 65 have the disease. The drugs available for Alzheimer’s aim to ease symptoms of the disease, but they cannot slow or reverse its progression. The last time a new medication was approved for Alzheimer’s was 15 years ago.Over the course of Alzheimer’s progression, sticky deposits of protein structures called plaques and tangles build up in the brain and damage and kill nerve cells. Proteins called amyloid-β and tau comprise these plaques and tangles and function improperly in Alzheimer’s sufferers. Drugs to combat Alzheimer’s often try to target these proteins.But in recent years, Alzheimer’s drugs in clinical testing have largely failed to produce adequate results. There are, however, a handful of promising options still in the running. David Geldmacher, a neurologist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, is working on a phase three clinical trial of a drug called aducanumab, which is sponsored by the biotech company Biogen. Medium spoke to Geldmacher about the challenges of drug discovery for Alzheimer’s disease and what keeps him optimistic for the future.David Geldmacher: One of the biggest issues in coming up with effective therapies for Alzheimer’s disease is that we really don’t know critical elements [underlying] the mechanism [of the disease] in most people with the illness.We know 1 or 2 percent of Alzheimer’s cases are clearly inherited. We tend to see, in those individuals, that the illness begins in the mid-forties. Because those mechanisms are so easily understood in the genetically determined cases, that’s what we’ve been able to use in animal models.A lot of work in Alzheimer’s disease is based in animal models with these human genes that cause Alzheimer’s. And things that worked well in animals have not turned out to work well in people. What we have learned, however, is that the process of Alzheimer’s disease begins in the brain years, probably decades, before the first symptoms emerge. In many cases, we’ve been trying to treat the illness too late in its course.What we’ve done in this particular study is use an antibody that has a slightly different configuration that targets a different part of the amyloid [compound] than some of the past treatments have targeted. But, more importantly, we are focusing on the disease very early on, when people have only mild cognitive symptoms. That means there has been less overall damage to the brain, and there’s a greater opportunity to prevent further cell death or rescue cells that have been made sick by the amyloid but not killed by them.The study is underway, so there are no findings that are reportable at this point. In a prior study, which was reported in Nature in 2016, the aducanumab antibody showed that it could clearly reduce the amount of amyloid plaques in the brains of people with Alzheimer’s disease. PET scans were done before treatment was administered and then at the end of treatment. People who received the aducanumab had a reduction in the amyloid burden in their brain. People who received the placebo during the same trial actually had an increased amyloid burden.This demonstrated that the agent is biologically active on the target we want it to be active on. The other thing noted in that trial was that patients on the highest dose of the medication showed some slowing of the progression of illness. This is one of the first studies where that’s been so clearly evident.Interestingly, at six months into the study, the doses did not distinguish themselves, so treatment was not clearly different from placebo. But at 12 months, the difference emerged. That tells us that the process by which the antibody is effective is a gradual one.That’s correct. One of the phrases we use in the field to characterize this type of treatment is a disease-modifying treatment rather than a symptom-modifying treatment. Since the disease is a chronic condition, we would have to assume that it’s going to require ongoing longer-term therapy. We don’t know whether that means lifelong or not. That’s research that still needs to be conducted.The biological agents, like aducanumab and BAN2401 [another molecule under development by Biogen], allow us to see proof of concept. They allow us to see that perhaps removing amyloid from the brain or preventing its accumulation is a valid approach. The next step would be to come up with a more easily produced, more easily administered, less expensive means of doing the same thing. So I view the biological situation as not necessarily the long-term solution for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease, but as opening the door to what future successes might look like.There is a whole second line of antibody therapies for Alzheimer’s that aren’t targeting the amyloid-β protein; rather, they’re targeting the tau protein, which is a critical factor in the neurofibrillary tangle. Several companies are working on anti-tau antibody therapies. Those are very early in development, but if they are successful, they may also open the doors.The market for Alzheimer’s therapies is huge, both in the United States and worldwide. So there’s an opportunity for big pharma companies to develop a very large treatment base, especially for treatments that might be more along the lines of prevention rather than intervention.There’s still a very active community of researchers pursuing new treatments, or more effective ones, for Alzheimer’s disease. Nonetheless, I do feel a great sense of responsibility. If you think about specialists like myself — people who focus on cognitive disorders or degenerative disorders — there are very few of us relative to, say, Parkinson’s specialists or multiple sclerosis specialists.So there is a lot of responsibility in trying to come up with therapeutics for an illness like Alzheimer’s, especially since the projections are that it’s going to dramatically increase in numbers over the course of the next 20 to 30 years. Epidemiological studies suggest that between 2000 and 2050, the number of Alzheimer’s cases in the United States is going to triple, approaching 15 to 20 million people with the illness. Life expectancy has also been progressively increasing, and since Alzheimer’s disease is an age-related disease, the more older people you have, the more cases of Alzheimer’s disease you’re going to experience.She wants to garden, she has studied the concept of love, and she dreams of pizza. BINA48, as you might guess from her name, is not a human, but a robot. There’s something else that makes BINA48 truly distinct, and it has nothing to do with her predilections for human ephemera. Of the small collection of robo-celebrities making the late-night talk show rounds, BINA48 is the only black-presenting one of the bunch. And as social robots continue to creep into the mainstream, her presence isn’t just increasingly necessary — it’s potentially the linchpin to the development of a more diverse society of robots.Creating the world’s first and only black humanoid robot was not the impetus for BINA48’s inception. A bodyless bust with a lifelike head and shoulders, BINA48 was manufactured by Hanson Robotics and is owned and operated by the Terasem Movement Foundation, an organization researching the possibility of uploading one’s likeness onto “consciousness software” for afterlife preservation. Designed as a research project, BINA48 gets her personality, appearance, and namesake from Bina Rothblatt, a real human and co-founder of the Terasem Movement, who uploaded hundreds of hours’ worth of her memories, thoughts, and beliefs to give BINA48 her foundation. In other words, the robot’s skin color was happenstance.“The reason BINA48 ended up being African-American is that she’s based on an African-American woman,” says Bruce Duncan, managing director of Terasem. “We were not actually trying to make BINA48 a spokesperson for all black people.”Regardless, BINA48 has become an emblem of the issue of representation in A.I., opening up the question of who will be replicated in robot form, and why?It is well-documented that A.I. programs of all stripes inherit the gender and racial biases of their creators on an algorithmic level, turning well-meaning machines into accidental agents of discrimination. But it turns out we also inflict our biases onto robots. A recent study led by Christoph Bartneck, a professor at the Human Interface Technology Lab at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand, found that not only are the majority of home robots designed with white plastic, but we also actually have a bias against the ones that are coated in black plastic. The findings were based on a shooter bias test, in which participants were asked to perceive threat level based on a split-second image of various black and white people, with robots thrown into the mix. Black robots that posed no threat were shot more than white ones.“The only thing that would motivate their bias [against the robots] would be that they would have transferred their already existing racial bias to, let’s say, African-Americans, onto the robots,” Bartneck told Medium. “That’s the only plausible explanation.”These types of biases also turn up when it comes to gender. In Singapore, a study of 198 young adults found that respondents felt more comfortable with the idea of a security robot gendered male and a housecleaning robot gendered female. And already, our widespread A.I. assistants, like Siri and Alexa, have been given female personas.Social robots like BINA48, which are designed to one day be our companions and helpers, are not only typically female but also tend to reinforce gender and racial stereotypes: Sophia — arguably the most famous social robot — was designed with the “classic beauty” of Audrey Hepburn in mind, according to her creators at Hanson Robots; Erica, a Japanese robot created by Hiroshi Ishiguro Laboratories, has been called “the most beautiful robot in the world” and sports a doll-like physique and style; and Jia Jia, developed at the University of Science and Technology of China, was inspired by an old story about a fairy who surprises her master with a clean home and hot meals. Jia Jia is also dressed in Han-style clothing, a growing fashion movement in China based on nationalist ideologies.Unlike Sophia, Erica and Jia Jia are not white, but they still conform to their culture’s majority race. And though a reality where social robots act as our daily companions is far off, Bartneck argues that if the field doesn’t incorporate diversity now, it will suffer the same issues that established industries are currently struggling to correct.“We see ourselves in these robots,” he says.BINA48 is leading the charge in this regard, and she is joined by a few other rebel robots. Alter, developed by roboticists Hiroshi Ishiguro and Takashi Ikegami of Japan, appears to be gender neutral, with a silicone face and arms and exposed body. Unlike Ishiguro’s other robots (including Erica), Alter was designed with a minimal humanistic appearance and persona in order to focus on the movement of its mechanical body. Then there’s Matsuko-roid, Japan’s cross-dressing TV show host robot based on human TV personality Matsuko Deluxe.Like BINA48, the elements that make Alter and Matsuko-roid diverse and unique were not the elements that drove their creation. Instead, their gender-nonconforming personas were happenstance, much like the racial biases built into Google’s image-recognition algorithm that identified African-Americans as “gorillas” were happenstance. And that’s the problem: In the absence of a conscious decision to fight bias, bias creeps in.“Instead of leaving this to some sort of randomness, why don’t you just take control and steer it in the right direction?” Bartneck says. “That is a responsibility that robotic developers have to pick up and work on.”Though BINA48 was never meant to be a spokesperson for identity politics, her creators are embracing the fact that she has become just that. The android started her digital life knowing very little of the racial history she inadvertently found herself in. (When asked by artist and activist Stephanie Dinkins, who is working on a project stemming from her conversations with BINA48, if she had experienced racism, BINA48 somewhat nonsensically replied, “I actually didn’t have it.”) Now, however, the real Bina is uploading more information about her history as a black woman onto BINA48, and Duncan, the managing director at Terasem, is working with Dinkins and prominent black celebrities, including Whoopi Goldberg and Morgan Freeman, to support the development of her identity.“When we’re building the architecture of our A.I. future, this is the time to make sure it’s healthy and representative and diverse,” Duncan says. “Not representing the diversity that we are as a species is like saving only four plants out of a rainforest. We’re doing a huge injustice to our own health and well-being if we don’t try to preserve the diversity in the world around us.”Going to Mars will change us — and not just in a touchy-feely, metaphysical way.Over time, we should expect a fair bit of evolutionary divergence between Mars settlers and the human population on Earth, according to Rice University biologist Scott Solomon, who examined this possibility in his 2016 book Future Humans: Inside the Science of Our Continuing Evolution. That divergence will start unspooling at the outset, thanks to something called “the founder effect.” No matter how or when it happens, the Red Planet will be settled by a relatively small group of people who are not perfectly representative of the entire human population. For example, it’s a pretty safe bet that Mars pioneers will be atypically adventurous and risk-tolerant. That means, Muskton — the odds are decent that the first Red Planet burg will be named after SpaceX’s CEO — will likely feature more rock-climbing gyms and bordellos per capita than cities here on Earth.And those initial differences will snowball, because Mars and Earth are very different worlds. The Red Planet is much smaller; the force of gravity on its surface is just 38 percent of the pull we feel here on Earth. Mars also lacks a global magnetic field, a thick atmosphere (though we could remedy that with terraforming), and a protective ozone layer. Mars gets hammered a lot harder than we do by space radiation — UV light and charged particles from the sun, as well as super-energetic cosmic rays zooming in from outside the solar system.This damaging radiation could cause higher mutation rates in the DNA of Mars settlers, Solomon said. Mutations increase genetic variability, so evolution may proceed faster on the Red Planet than it does here on Earth. What sorts of changes could we see over there? Well, for one thing, natural selection might adjust skin tone on the Red Planet, to help settlers cope with that serious radiation load. (Even if they live in modified caves or lava tubes, as seems likely, the pioneers will still have to spend some time on the surface to tend to their crops and attend spring equinox chili cook-offs, for example.) This may lead to dark skin due to increased production of melanin, just as we see among some peoples here on Earth. But other pigments could potentially be pressed into service as well, including carotenoids, the molecules that give real carrots — as opposed to those purple artisanal weirdos — their color, according to Solomon.Mars settlers may also eventually sport thicker bones than their ancestors, Solomon said. That’s because, as research on astronauts in low-Earth orbit has shown, bones become less dense and more brittle in low-gravity conditions. So, Red Planet pioneers with abnormally stout skeletons may do abnormally well, throwing down monster dunk after monster dunk in games of Marsketball while their owned opponents roll around in the dirt clutching their broken femurs and moaning. And Marsketball would be awesome, by the way. If you kept the hoop at the standard 10 feet, all but the most sessile among us could dunk, since you can jump about 2.5 times higher on Mars than you can here on Earth.And Martian colonists may not be plagued by plagues. The long cruise to the Red Planet could serve as a quarantine, keeping nasty germs from getting a foothold in the settlement, according to Solomon. Muskton probably wouldn’t have to worry about the next Ebola or West Nile emerging from the Martian wilds, which appear to be free of viruses and bacteria, let alone any chimps, birds, mosquitoes, or bats to incubate or transmit them. So, if the settlers left their mammal friends at home — the ones we like to eat, as well as the ones whose bellies we like to rub and ears we like to tousle — they could conceivably banish infectious disease to the memory hole. (The pioneers could go vegan, or eat bugs rather than cows and pigs. Insects are much further removed from us evolutionarily and therefore less likely to pass pathogens.) The settlers’ immune systems might then wither like a snipped umbilical cord, eventually atrophying into vestigiality: White blood cells could be the new tailbones.“If that were to happen, if, somehow, a disease were to be introduced to Mars, it would be completely devastating,” Solomon said. “That would set up a situation where any contact between Earth and Mars would be extremely dangerous. Steps might have to be taken to basically eliminate any chance of having contact. Even if there are shipments going back and forth, even if there are people going from Earth to Mars, perhaps they don’t ever come into contact with one another.”This scenario would lead to a cessation of gene flow between Earth humans and Mars humans, and speciation could soon follow.How soon?“I hate to ever put numbers on it, because it’s still such a speculative scenario,” Solomon said. “But you’d be talking about at least several hundred to, possibly, several thousand generations.”This putative outcome doesn’t seem to jibe with our experiences here on Earth, where small bands of pioneers have repeatedly settled new lands without ever diverging into new species of hominid. For example, Native Americans and aboriginal Australians remain in the Homo sapiens fold despite having lived in relative isolation on their newfound continents for about 15,000 and 50,000 years, respectively. But we can take this comparison only so far: North America and Australia are still part of familiar, old Earth, so the environment wasn’t pushing those long-ago explorers to diverge nearly as powerfully as harsh, weird Mars will.Solomon cautioned that nobody can predict how evolution will proceed in the future. Indeed, some folks have a different take on our relationship with those future inhabitants of Muskton. For example, Mars Society president Robert Zubrin thinks the settlers will develop one or more unique Martian cultures but will not radiate into a new species; they’ll just be too close to Earth, with too much contact. He does think this will happen with interstellar settlers, however, partly because of the inevitable cultural differences that will arise.“We’re going to have the power, in principle, to control our evolution, to genetically engineer and influence our children,” Zubrin said. “If we have established ourselves in new star systems, in some places, people will probably say, ‘That’s a great idea; let’s do that.’ In others, they’ll say, ‘Oh, that’s immoral. We should not do that.’ So, whether they do it or don’t do it, it’s going to cause divergence.”Such divergence, he said, could lead to a Star Trek–like panoply of humanoids that differ from each other in just a few trifling respects, such as the color and scaliness of their skin or the number and size of the bumpy ridges on their foreheads. You know, whatever look becomes fashionable on those deep-space outposts, so far from the dominant, original culture and its homogenization machine. Hopefully hipster, skinny jeans won’t make it all the way out to GJ 273b.Of course, the lack of gene mixing among colonists and their forebears on Earth would be an even bigger factor in our species’ interstellar radiation — if there are still any genes around to be mixed. We may have advanced to cyborg/sublimated consciousness form by the time we start moving out among the stars.I have a huge pimple on my cheek when I try Olay’s skin analysis app, Skin Advisor. The app directs me to take a selfie and answer a few questions, like what worries me most about my skin — wrinkles or acne, for example — and what kinds of products I use on a daily basis.I’m prepared for the obvious news: I’m having a breakout. But within a few seconds, the app alerts me to an issue I didn’t know I had. According to Skin Advisor, my problem area is around my mouth, likely because of my smile lines, and I’m directed to buy a $22 anti-aging cream.This is curious, since TroveSkin, the Indonesia-based artificial intelligence app I tried before this one, analyzed my selfie and concluded that my biggest skin problem was texture, and that I should be using exfoliating, anti-aging, and brightening products.Skin Advisor and TroveSkin are two of about a dozen apps from startups and veteran skin care companies that use artificial intelligence (A.I.) to spot your skin woes, provide personalized product recommendations, and track your skin over time. In 2018, Neutrogena released a device and app package called Skin360, which uses a magnifying lens attached to your smartphone to deliver product suggestions. Startup Proven recently launched a personalized skin care line that draws from medical journals and reviews to suggest products based on your responses to an online assessment.The global cosmetics market is estimated to grow to $805 billion by 2023, with skin care accounting for the largest share. Between drugstores, online retailers, and beauty stores, it’s hard to know what you really need or want. Do I have blackheads or redness? Should I try to brighten my skin or start an anti-aging regimen? How do I make my skin look “dewy,” whatever that means? Hyperpersonalization using A.I.-driven technology has caught on in consumer products (think Google Home, Netflix, and smartphone facial recognition), so it makes sense that businesses see customizing your skin care routine as a logical application.Diana de la Iglesia Jiménez, an A.I. and computer engineering expert at the Bioinformatics Unit of the Spanish National Cancer Research Centre, a public research center, says the technology used in skin care apps is the same machine-learning technology used in other industries. “They collect data about you and predict your current needs or the potential features of your ‘ideal’ product,” she says, adding that she understands the technology’s appeal. “If these products are capable of analyzing your specific needs and features, they could bring you a solution more adapted to your real needs.”TroveSkin, for example, encourages you to take a daily selfie so you can follow how your skin is changing over time. I could log in throughout the day to let the app know how I was feeling, how long I slept, how much I exercised, and what I ate throughout the day.Some apps also guess your age depending on your skin’s appearance—what’s known as your “skin age”—with varying degrees of accuracy. TroveSkin, the first app I tried, guessed my age was 23, underestimating it by six years. When I used my laptop camera, Olay’s Skin Advisor correctly guessed I was 29. But when I tested it again using the app on my smartphone, it guessed I was 35.Proven co-founders Ming Zhao and Amy Yuan developed their business in response to their own skin troubles. Before starting Proven, Zhao was working 16-hour days at a private equity job in Hong Kong and “using all kinds of different miracle-promising skin care products, and I felt like nothing made a dent,” she says. “Eventually, someone recommended I see a skin guru to make personalized skin care for me. That was the only time I saw results.”When Zhao met Yuan, a computational physicist, at Stanford University, the duo started building a deep-learning skin care database using scientific studies and consumer testimonials. It now includes more than 8 million consumer reviews, 100,000 skin care products, 20,000 ingredients, and 4,000 scientific journals.Here’s how it works: Customers answer a list of questions about their skin concerns, how their skin reacts to products, and even what they eat. After you complete the quiz, Proven’s machine-learning algorithms scan the database to spit out information about your living environment and lifestyle and how they affect your skin and to match you with ingredients. Zhao says the company partnered with a dermatologist to work on the questionnaire and create the formulations it sells.When I tried the Proven app, I was told I’m not drinking enough water, which is leading to dehydration. Since I live in Dallas-Fort Worth, which has “unhealthy air quality,” Proven told me I’m exposed to pollution particles that cause wrinkles and age spots.To address these environmental factors along with my acne-prone, oily skin and hyperpigmentation, Proven suggested a customized three-product routine that includes ingredients like sulfur (to deal with acne), hyaluronic acid (to retain moisture), and mandelic acid (to exfoliate the skin for a smoother, clearer appearance). The three products cost $195 for a two-month supply.“Personalization is not just a trend. It’s going to be the future of all consumer products,” Zhao tells me. “With Proven, our products are tailored to you [based on] genetics, skin concerns, and environmental factors.”I ask dermatologist Fayne Frey if personalization apps are the future of skin care. Her response is a resounding no. “Apps have little if any clinical skill other than programmed, one-size-fits-all algorithms,” she says.Frey takes issue with some of the questions asked by Proven. Most consumers probably don’t know what’s wrong with their skin or how to answer questions about their level of stress, which is subjective, she says.Frey’s other issue with Proven, Skin360, and similar apps is that they lead consumers to purchase the company’s own products. The tech, according to Frey, is more about marketing than about giving people science-backed recommendations — the latter of which could actually be helpful. It’s a “market that’s feeding on people’s insecurity,” she says.Frey is attempting to create a nonbiased database herself. In 2014, she launched the website and product selector FryFace. Based on a few questions, consumers can find skin care options. She doesn’t make any money from the site and adds products manually. In her opinion, there are plenty of products already on the market that work just fine.Dermatologist Dee Anna Glaser, of St. Louis University, says that if A.I. apps get people thinking about taking better care of their skin, that’s not a bad thing. Unfortunately, A.I.-backed skin care apps are not cheap. For $195, Proven’s customized kit includes one cleanser, one sunscreen, and one night cream. It costs $50 to get Neutrogena’s Skin360 app and the magnifying lens required to scan your skin. Olay’s Skin Advisor appears to be one of the few free-to-use A.I.-driven apps currently available.“All of these A.I. devices lead you to buy some kind of skin care. And if it’s working, that’s great,” Glaser says. “But what I see at my practice is that patients spend hundreds of dollars [on products that don’t work], and then they’ve delayed the opportunity to get better. People with true skin problems would be better served more quickly, accurately, and less expensively” if they went to see a dermatologist.A.I. expert de la Iglesia says there’s another issue: If these apps collect low-quality data (an image that’s too blurry, a question that wasn’t answered properly, or product reviews that are fake), a machine-learning algorithm does not work properly. “I think that the collected data could be of low quality, and so [could] the predictions,” de la Iglesia says.A.I. is making an impact, however, on the detection of skin diseases. Glaser says there are already devices in dermatology offices that use A.I. technology to help doctors detect skin cancer and determine whether a biopsy is needed. As the technology becomes more accurate, it might even be applicable for consumer use.While these apps may provide a good starting point for people who are new to skin care, I wouldn’t use them again unless I was looking to buy a product from the brands that offer them (say, I needed help choosing between different Olay moisturizers). The aim to help consumers select products that are more likely to fix their skin problems is a lofty goal, but in my many years of experimenting, I’ve found which ingredients work for me and which ones don’t — and I’m not sure that an app can be better at selecting products than I am.When my parents told me we were moving to America, I pictured a carousel. Special, beguiling; a place where nothing bad ever happened. In my head, it was like a still photograph of something in motion. The lights were a warm streak of yellow, and the painted horses looked like they were dancing. I was nearly six, and the idea of flying across the world to a place like that was thrilling.This was the spirited creation of a child, sure, but one that had roots somewhere. I don’t know exactly where it came from, but I suspect that the allure of this country — the mythical American dream — is so relentlessly propagated that it managed to worm its way into the unvarnished brain of a small child. It remained fixed in my mind for a long time. Mostly, I leaned on it when my friends disparaged the country they were born in. “You’re lucky,” I used to insist. “People give up everything to make it to America.”And then I grew up, and the carousel broke down. It happened in fits, punctuated by national crises and a rising awareness of my own privilege here and all it afforded me and the position of others relative to me. It happened when I read books and essays, when I made friends, when I witnessed cruelty and did nothing to help. It happened as I filled in the lines of my own personhood, and I began to question what, exactly, personhood meant here in America and who was allowed to have it.The weight of how much the ideal had disintegrated settled itself between my shoulder blades on the day I became an American. My naturalization ceremony — held this past October, on a Friday too warm for the bright-red coat I wore — was ostensibly a salute to more than 140 immigrants. It was also an ominous celebration of nationalistic assimilation and vaguely funereal: I pledged my loyalty to America and left behind the place I came from. There would be no more slipping out of my Americanness when it suited me. The country’s sins were now indistinguishable from my own.Perversely, becoming a citizen presented me with a sense of security. That was one of the reasons I chose this moment in time to become a citizen, after all — not out of some patriotic desire to submerge myself in the American swamp, but because the swamp offered more protection than the shore.People often seem disappointed by this explanation. “That’s why you’re doing this now?” they’d ask, hoping, perhaps, that I was motivated by a sense of civic duty, or that I had gone crazy. But the simple answer, and the one I was loath to give, was that I wanted to feel safe. I wanted proof that I belonged here. I no longer wanted to be able to slip out of my Americanness — not because I considered it to be part of me, but because I didn’t want someone else to decide when it would happen next. Before I took this step, unease was at a constant simmer beneath the surface. My life was not entirely within my control; someone out there could make it hell if they wanted to.And yet the truth is that, growing up, I was always privileged enough to not worry about becoming an American citizen. It never felt like a necessity, and my parents waited almost as long as I did. We moved here because my father got a good job, which meant our immigration status was always relatively safe, and because I was a kid, my parents jumped through all the hoops for me. Until now, I never had to reckon with any of this.It also became a point of secret, mulish pride. I didn’t want to give in. Doing so felt like letting go of some essential part of me — the part that wasn’t from here, that never felt wholly at home, that had always considered herself stuck between two worlds. Citizenship seemed like it would be a fundamental, irreparable transformation of my identity. Maybe I would welcome that someday, but I wanted to be sure about it. Instead, I did it because I felt like I had no other choice. I did it so that if I ever moved away, I had a way back. I did it out of a vague sense of unease, which is, bitterly, the most perfectly American thing of all.It’s also ludicrous. I’m white. My accent is so neutral that I could be a virtual assistant. I’m fluent in Americana. My path to citizenship didn’t involve fleeing violence or persecution. I didn’t risk my life or my family’s life. I haven’t lived in fear of deportation. I don’t get stopped at airports, and on the street, and in my home, and asked why I’m here. I blend in. And so it feels fraudulent to say that I want to be safe. It feels callous to boil down the prodigious step of becoming a citizen to flinty practicality and curdled cynicism when other people give everything they have to make it through a naturalization ceremony.A few weeks ago, a letter arrived in the mail from a county official — the same man who presided over my ceremony — congratulating me on becoming a citizen. He also took pains to castigate those who “take shortcuts,” as if that was a decision born out of laziness and duplicity rather than circumstance and necessity. I wanted to set the letter on fire. I know citizenship isn’t meaningless. I know it’s not just an empty token of appreciation from Uncle Sam. But it’s difficult to reconcile the practiced reverence with which it is treated with the feeling that I got lucky — because of where I came from, because of what I look like, because of what I sound like.These days, I try to remember the carousel. I try to parse what it meant to me and why it stayed with me for so long, even after it became clear that it was nothing more than a fantasy. I lean on what it represented — opportunity, promise, equity — and choose to see that in the things around me. There’s a boy in a tuxedo beaming in front of a massive American flag as someone in his family becomes a citizen. There are people who organize, agitate, and protest. There are candidates running for office who reject the notion of cruelty as the bedrock of policy. There’s the thrill I felt after voting today for the very first time in my life.I want to think about these things. Maybe that’s the migrant mentality: a conscious choice to believe that your new home is better. The sting of leaving the old one behind would be too much to bear otherwise.But then I come back to the catastrophes, recent and older, all with different shapes but the same rotten filling. Brett Kavanaugh, Pittsburgh, Charlottesville, Iraq, September 2008, Ferguson, November 2016. The horrific absurdity of listening to a tall man in a gray suit drone on about how immigrants reflect American values while the current administration punishes and humiliates immigrants of color at every turn. I get angry at myself for believing, again and again, in a myth.I wonder sometimes if this is just what it means to be American, this back-and-forth, this tension between what you hope for and what you know, deep down, to be true. Maybe it gets easier once you learn to walk the tightrope between these two poles, without flailing, without letting one or the other subsume you. I hope so.An estimated 6 million Americans couldn’t vote on Tuesday because they were convicted felons. About half of those people had finished their sentences and left prison. They still weren’t allowed to vote. Roughly half of those Americans — about 1.5 million — live in Florida.Disenfranchisement in the United States has taken on many forms in recent years: voter ID laws and restrictions on early voting are just two examples. But restricting the voting rights of felons is one of the oldest practices on the books. And nowhere has it been more widespread than in Florida, possibly the one state where the phrase “every vote counts” consistently rings true. (See: Bush v. Gore, 2000; Obama v. Romney, 2012; Trump v. Clinton, 2016; Scott v. Nelson, 2018.)But Florida’s ex-felons got a reprieve on Tuesday. Almost two-thirds of residents who could and did vote on Nov. 6 elected to restore voting rights for those who couldn’t. It was one of the most far-reaching statewide results in this year’s midterms, one that could have lasting effects on how future elections play out in this pivotal state.“It’s a really important milestone just in the sheer number of people who will be re-enfranchised,” says Marc Meredith, an associate professor of political science at the University of Pennsylvania who studies felon voting rights.A dozen states deny voting rights to some or all convicts, even after they’ve fulfilled their prison, parole, or probation sentences, according to a 2016 report by The Sentencing Project, a non-profit criminal justice advocacy group. But Florida was by far the most prominent offender. Its disenfranchised felon population was the country’s largest, thanks to the state’s sizable number of prisoners and its relatively harsh sentencing guidelines.“Florida was the elephant in the room,” says Christopher Uggen, a University of Minnesota sociologist and a co-author of Locked Out: Felon Disenfranchisement and American Democracy.While the state has one of the biggest prison populations in the U.S., it has also convicted a disproportionate number of people of color. White people still make up the largest share of felons in Florida. But among African-Americans in the state, 20 percent have been disenfranchised because of a felony conviction compared with 9.2 percent of the overall population.Florida’s voting restrictions stem from some of the darker shadows of the Reconstruction Era, when Southern states often looked for ways to suppress black voters. In 1868, Florida’s Constitution took away felons’ right to vote, even making a crime like petty larceny a felony.Over the last couple decades, felons have unsuccessfully used class-action lawsuits to try to change the law in the court system. In 2007, Gov. Charlie Crist, then a Republican now a Democrat, revised the state’s clemency process and restored more than 150,000 residents’ voting rights. But his successor, Republican Rick Scott, dialed back that process. Under Scott’s administration, only 3,200 saw their voting rights restored.That left few options for Florida’s ex-felons other than going directly to the enfranchised themselves. “It was a tremendous victory,” Uggen says, especially for people “who had older criminal records that may date from the ’70s, ’80s, and ’90s who were really shut out of the electorate.”The result is a historic win for civil rights activists working to reform the criminal justice system, one that’s often stacked against people of color. But what does it mean for Florida’s future elections?For the last two decades, it seemed impossible to hold an election without Florida’s races being decided by the slimmest of margins. Look at Tuesday’s race for the U.S. Senate between Democrat Bill Nelson and Republican Rick Scott. As of Wednesday, the difference in the race was just 30,000 votes. Adding 1.5 million ex-felons to the rolls has the potential to sway those kinds of close races. But whether that happens will ultimately depend on two questions: Which way would they lean politically? And will they vote?Uggen estimates that 80 to 90 percent of Florida’s black ex-felons likely lean Democratic based on how similar populations have voted in other states and that the remaining 75 percent of the total ex-felon population breaks down evenly between Democratic and Republican voters. Uggen points to one study he conducted with NYU sociologist Jeffrey Manza, which estimated that Florida’s ex-felons would likely have voted for Democrat Al Gore over Republican George W. Bush in the 2000 presidential election by a margin of at least two to one, easily making up the 537-vote difference and giving Gore the state, and ultimately, the White House.Another study Uggen points to is a national survey from 2002, which found that “Democratic candidates would have received about 7 out of every 10 votes cast by the felons and ex-felons in 14 of the last 15 U.S. Senate election years.”“I wouldn’t say it’s a big victory for the Democratic party or portray it in partisan terms, but on balance, I think the outcome [of the ballot measure] will likely tilt Democratic to some degree,” Uggen says.The more pressing question might be whether ex-felons will vote at all. According to studies by the University of Pennsylvania’s Meredith and Harvard PhD candidate Michael Morse, in six other states that recently relaxed their voting rights laws, ex-felon turnout ranged from just 8 percent to 14 percent.Uggen, however, says he believes turnout could be higher in Florida because so many ex-felons have been integrated into society over decades and are more invested in their communities than newly released prisoners.Assuming turnout numbers and political preference follows similar patterns, Uggen says it’s reasonable to believe that if ex-felons had voted this week, they would have swayed the election toward Nelson, the Democratic incumbent. They could even have had an effect on the governor’s race, which Republican Ron DeSantis led over Democrat Andrew Gillum by 51,000 votes, as of Wednesday.Similarly, Meredith and Morse estimate that of the 1.5 million Floridians now eligible to vote, an estimated 102,000 would vote for Democrats, 54,000 would vote for Republicans, and 40,000 could go either away. The others likely wouldn’t vote.“It is those races that are so close that there could be a recount,” Meredith says. “That’s where re-enfranchisement could matter.”Ring, an Amazon-owned smart doorbell company, wants to help you and your neighbors gossip about “suspicious activity” on your street with a standalone app called Neighbors. The app, which was introduced in May, encourages people to bring the surveillance state home by uploading video clips and publishing reports about neighborhood activities, which are then broadcast to other users and participating police departments.Ring markets Neighbors as a modern version of an old-school neighborhood watch program, encouraging communities to band together to protect one another and combat crime. In a commercial for Neighbors, a pair of greasy would-be package thieves are deterred from their crime after realizing video of them is being broadcast throughout the neighborhood. No cops are called, but a man walking his beagle, who has been alerted to their presence through the Neighbors app, watches the thwarted thieves drive their clunker out of the neighborhood, crime averted.Two things make Neighbors different than similar services like Nextdoor. First is the exclusive focus on crime. Neighbors prohibits posts that aren’t about crime and safety, which means that if you have nothing suspicious to post about, you’re not welcome to post at all. Second is the direct connection Neighbors forges with police. Not only will you and your neighbors be watching your streets through the app — so will the cops. Police departments can join Neighbors, view publicly uploaded videos, and request additional data from Ring for areas “where an incident may have occurred.” Just like traditional neighborhood watch programs, Neighbors will give cops extra eyes on the streets, but instead of reports from block captains, police will get video streams uploaded by the community.Sure, no one wants to feel unsafe walking down the street or in their own home. In theory, introducing a simple, app-based way for individuals to engage in the most well-known crime prevention program in the country seems reasonable. But no one is sure if neighborhood watch programs actually work.Studies on neighborhood watch are rare, and the data indicates that while some communities with neighborhood watch programs experience a drop in crime, others actually see crime spike. Most see little change at all.What is clear is that neighborhood watch is great at violating people’s civil rights, encouraging racial profiling, and annoying neighbors. And these problems are only poised to get worse as high-tech peer-to-peer surveillance increases.Many trace the origin of widespread neighborhood watch programs to the murder of Kitty Genovese in 1964. Genovese was on her way home from work when Walter Mosely stabbed her in the back and dragged her inside, where he attempted to rape her. Eventually, she bled to death. Two weeks later, the New York Times reported that 37 of Genovese’s neighbors had watched the attack and failed to call the police.The reported callousness of Genovese’s neighbors ignited fury across the country, and officials lamented everyone’s apparent disinterest in the safety of their neighbors. Academics coined the term “bystander apathy.”Of course, the details regarding the bystanders to Kitty Genovese’s death turned out to be mostly inaccurate. The Times itself would report, decades later, that “the article grossly exaggerated the number of witnesses and what they had perceived.” Regardless, her murder changed the way Americans view their responsibilities in their neighborhoods — and their connection to the police.Officials wasted little time harnessing the outrage over bystander apathy and implemented the program of quasi–law enforcement groups that would become known as neighborhood watch. Several volunteer groups arose in the early 1970s, from a group in New York who were trained to give eyewitness accounts of crime to an official Neighborhood Watch program developed by the National Sheriffs’ Association (NSA) designed to quickly disseminate information from the police to the community and promote civic engagement.The NSA program was based mainly on controversial research that came out of the Chicago School of Sociology, which advanced the theory that “social disorganization,” or the lack of social control in society, is what leads to crime. Similar to the ideas promoted by “broken windows” policing, the Chicago School thought that cracking down on smaller-scale crimes, with the help of concerned neighbors, could help prevent more serious criminal activity.The general idea with neighborhood watch programs is that citizens can act as extra “eyes and ears” in the community and report crime and suspicious behavior to the police. These programs grew without fanfare for much of the 1980s and ’90s. Police and communities touted the benefits of neighborhood watch, but actual studies were scant and their conclusions unpersuasive. Nonetheless, communities and police continued to start new programs throughout the country until neighborhood watch became the most well-known crime prevention program in the United States.As neighborhood watch programs grew in popularity, so did surveillance technology. CCTV, the first widely used video surveillance tool, gained widespread popularity in the 1980s and ’90s. The video systems allowed cops to magnify their surveillance by feeding video from several different CCTV cameras directly to a bank of monitors overseen by a single person. Business owners and even private citizens enthusiastically installed CCTV systems in the name of crime prevention and personal safety.CCTV — which seems quaint compared to a network of smart doorbells that are technically controlled by a massive e-commerce corporation — was met with harsh backlash from privacy experts, who called it a violation of civil liberties. CCTV owners weren’t concerned. Not yet armed with Wi-Fi and smartphones, they shared their home security bloopers the old-school way: on America’s Funniest Home Videos. It’s a phenomenon continued by Ring, which regularly promotes funny doorbell videos.This turn toward technology-augmented surveillance also provided ample opportunity for government abuse. At the same time that neighbors began to watch each other in the name of public safety, CCTV cameras began to appear, watching us at the bank, the courthouse, and the store. CCTV cameras were installed first by police to monitor select areas, and then increasingly permeated all aspects of the public square.As policing and technology changed, our prison populations boomed, with changes in drug and sentencing policies mandating more and longer sentences. Along with heightened arrest numbers and longer prison sentences, police saw neighborhood watch as an integral part of a war on crime that disproportionately targeted people of color. While white neighborhoods started neighborhood watch programs, black neighborhoods were decimated by overpolicing and incarceration.After 9/11, personal safety and security took on a new urgency. In 2002, the National Sheriffs’ Association joined with the Department of Justice to pivot its program toward national security. Together, they rebranded Neighborhood Watch as USA on Watch, and communities were encouraged to “become active in homeland security” and to “fight against terrorism.” The terrorism-fighting mechanism was mostly limited to encouraging disaster preparedness among neighbors, but the insider/outsider dichotomy present in Neighborhood Watch programs took on new meaning as Islamophobia ran rampant in the wake of the terrorist attacks.Communities, now believing they were responsible for the security of the entire country, began closely surveilling their black and brown neighbors in the name of homeland security and engaged in hate-based violence in the name of retribution for 9/11. The FBI and NYPD took things further, putting entire communities under surveillance for years, using license plate readers and tapping the phones of blocks upon blocks of New Yorkers who lived in predominantly Arab communities.Although it is not clear why, the Department of Justice eventually pulled funding from the USA on Watch program and reverted to its original moniker under the umbrella of the National Sheriffs’ Association. The shift back to the less exciting, nonterrorism-related activities of the average neighborhood watch, however, did not stem the racism that seems to have seeped into most initiatives.While some neighborhood watch programs do nothing more than host monthly police-liaison community meetings, others have adopted the idea and title of neighborhood watch to patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, looking for undocumented migrants, or to stalk the streets on behalf of the KKK, presumably looking for nonwhite residents out after dark. Many of these groups invest heavily in police and military-grade gear, from mobile command centers to high-tech surveillance gadgets.Some of the problems endemic to neighborhood watch groups were thrust front and center in 2012, when neighborhood watch block captain George Zimmerman shot and killed Trayvon Martin in a Florida subdivision. The resulting trial revealed that Zimmerman frequently called the cops to report black men in the neighborhood as part of his neighborhood watch duties. He was eventually found not guilty, and a large part of his defense relied on his role as a protector of the neighborhood.While the Zimmerman trial was happening, neighborhood watch groups were slowly making their way online with the advent of Nextdoor.com, which launched in 2011. Nextdoor was one of the first major websites to actively solicit and distribute crime and safety information to neighborhood users alongside other neighborhood-related content. After a few relatively innocent years of posts about local plumbers and crowdsourced restaurant recommendations, Nextdoor developed a problem: rampant racial profiling. Posts regarding “suspicious” people of color walking down the road, riding their bike, or otherwise existing in public infiltrated the site. White users complained about people of color in their neighborhoods and described suspected perpetrators of crime in unhelpful and racist terms.Nextdoor initially blamed the problem on racist users, but the company eventually set up systems to nudge members away from posting racist content by requiring posters to describe more than the race or ethnicity of suspected wrongdoers. Nextdoor’s solutions were both lauded as innovative and criticized for not doing enough, but no one seemed to question the underlying rationale for peer-to-peer policing in the first place.In fact, Nextdoor’s successes set the stage for other tech companies to enter the market of nosy neighbors. Canary, a home camera system, allows you to sound an alarm or call the police directly from the app’s interface should you detect an intruder while staring at a video stream of your living room. SimpliSafe, a cloud-based home security system that promises to deter criminals from entering your home and promptly reports any alarms or disturbances to the police, had revenue of $38.5 million in 2013, up from $1.4 million in 2010. In 2018, a private equity and venture firm took control of SimpliSafe in a deal that valued it at around $1 billion.Flock Safety, a Georgia-based security startup, wants to bypass individuals entirely. Flock cameras, which cost $1,500 per year, are “designed to solve crime” by reading and tracking the license plates on cars driving through the neighborhood, storing video footage, and using “advanced machine learning” to turn video footage into the “key images needed to make an arrest.” Ring has built something of a cult following around videos captured through its motion-sensing video doorbells, which the company encourages users to share on the Ring app and social media.Neighbors is the logical next step — a place where video clips from your doorbells and security cameras are cannibalized into content for neighbors to scroll through and police to analyze. But Neighbors is also a glimpse into what seems like an inevitable future where neighborhood streets become a high-tech panopticon and neighbors spy on neighbors.Tech companies are successfully convincing us that personal and public safety mandates a reduction in privacy and that policing our neighbors is the mark of a good citizen. But the decades of American jurisprudence about privacy are not merely the stuff of academic debate: They are a stark record of the abuses that arise when the state has unlimited access to the particulars of our lives. As use of private surveillance and high-tech neighborhood watch initiatives expand, we will have to grapple with what exactly we are willing to sacrifice in the name of safety. Because it isn’t just your neighbors the state wants to see from your video doorbell—it’s also you.Update: Following the publication of this story, a Ring representative emailed the following statement:My Mother’s Day was defined by a blue Rubbermaid storage tub sitting ominously in the middle of my closet. It had been there for days. My husband had brought it down because it contained the gift bags and tissue paper necessary to wrap his mother’s gift and mine.The gift he needed to wrap for me? A necklace I hadn’t asked for and didn’t want. For Mother’s Day, I had requested just one thing: a housecleaning service. The gift, for me, was not so much the cleaning itself but the fact that, for once, I would not be in charge of the household office work. I would not have to make calls, get multiple quotes, research and vet each service, arrange payment, and schedule the appointment. The real gift I wanted was to be relieved of the emotional labor of a single task that had been nagging at the back of my mind.The day before Mother’s Day, my husband called a single service, decided it was too expensive, and vowed to clean the bathrooms himself. What I had really wanted was for him to ask friends on Facebook for a recommendation or call four or five more services — do the emotional labor I would have done if the job had fallen to me.Instead, after presenting me with the necklace, he stole away to deep-clean the bathrooms, leaving me to care for our children as the rest of the house fell into total disarray. In his mind, he was doing what I had most wanted — giving me sparkling bathrooms without me having to do it myself. Which is why he was frustrated when I ungratefully passed by, not looking at his handiwork as I put away his shoes, shirt, and socks that had been left on the floor. That was when I stumbled, again, over the Rubbermaid storage tub and reached my breaking point.For days, it had impeded me every time I needed to toss clothes in the hamper or pick out something to wear. It was shoved, kicked, rolled onto its side, but it wasn’t put away. I couldn’t return it to the high shelf where it belonged without enormous effort and the aid of a kitchen chair, but that wasn’t the real problem. It was obvious that the box was in the way and needed to be put back. It would have been easy for him to just reach up and put it away, but instead he had stepped around it, willfully ignoring it for two days. It was up to me to tell him that he should put away something he had taken out in the first place. If I wanted it put away, I could simply ask my husband to do so. He was easily strong enough and tall enough to do it in mere seconds. And therein was the real problem. It was a simple and obvious task that required minimal effort for him. So why hadn’t he done it? Why did I always have to ask?It was a question that led to a tear-filled fight as I tried to get my husband to grasp why being the household manager who notices problems, delegates solutions, and has to ask in a singsong voice to get anyone to comply is exhausting. I was angry and completely spent. I couldn’t quite wrap my mind around all the things I was upset about in the heat of the moment, and certainly not in a way that would make sense. I didn’t have the energy left to explain the mental load or emotional labor to him in a way he would understand or accept. I didn’t want to walk that fine line of protecting his feelings in order to get my point across. So instead, I wrote it down — all the struggles and frustrations that had led to that mess of a moment — and published it as a feature article in Harper’s Bazaar.The essay quickly went viral. Apparently, many women could relate to the imbalance of emotional labor. Men are pitching in with household chores more than ever —fathers reported spending 10 hours a week on household chores in 2016, compared with four hours in 1965. But the fact remains that in heterosexual couples, the woman is usually the one doing the emotional labor of planning playdates, reading the school handbook, noticing which pantry items are running low and putting them on the grocery list, choosing what to bring to the neighborhood potluck… the list goes on.When I wrote the article and shared it with Rob, I was essentially drawing a line in the sand. I was saying, as clearly as I knew how, that we couldn’t go on without him taking his share of responsibility in our life together. It was uncomfortable, difficult, and, quite frankly, even harder than having a blow-up fight about emotional labor every few months. Implementing a shared standard that worked for both of us meant that both of us had to show up and struggle through our individual hangups together. I had to face my perfectionism, my desire for control, the social conditioning that tied my worth to my ability to perform emotional labor. He had to learn these skills for the first time. He had to face the ways he had unintentionally hurt me by ignoring emotional labor for so long. He had to confront the social conditioning telling him that emotional labor — anything that fosters connection to his whole life — is not for him. It was a whole lot of unpacking to do to figure out things like how to best handle laundry and toddler meltdowns as a team.I was commissioned to write a book about the topic, which quickly changed my life from that of a part-time freelancer to a full-time writer. Around the same time, my husband became unemployed. As my work with the book picked up, his job search hit a wall. He had spent hours upon hours applying for jobs, almost none of which were panning out, as we headed into the holidays. It was time for the pendulum to swing into his corner, and I told him so in no uncertain terms. I was ready for a trading-places scenario — for once, I was going to be the one who filled the role of ideal worker while he shouldered the emotional labor. I explained that having the house be a total disaster when I was working wasn’t something that I could overlook or put out of my mind for a few hours. I couldn’t write with a clear head if I knew a pile of unknown horrors was waiting for me on the kitchen table. It stressed me out knowing that once one shift ended, another was waiting for me. I also couldn’t have him come talk over meal plans with me while I was in the middle of work, or ask any other questions about what to do next while I was on the clock. I needed him to do some real emotional labor — and that meant figuring it out without my guidance and delegation. It was a steep learning curve, but one we both knew he was prepared to master.He did exceptionally well taking on the brunt of emotional labor. Without my constant micromanaging, he was able to find his confidence and start feeling competent in this new role. I still asked if he had checked this or done that, but after a few weeks of realizing the answer was always yes, I stopped worrying that he needed my guidance and focused on my work like I said I would. Rob became the only one checking homework and making sure school lunches got packed and meal plans were made and the kids were picking up their belongings (and he was picking up his own). He wrote all 40 of our Christmas cards when I was too burned out to do them. He was the only one calling and texting his parents for most of the month. He reminded me of things that were on the calendar, even when it was on the wall a few feet from my desk. I hadn’t planned on off-loading so much to him; it simply happened. I would end my work hours and fall onto the couch to read more research books while Rob was the one making dinner and then cleaning up afterward.Then I noticed one afternoon, when I took my lunch break, that he seemed really far off. He was there but not really there. I figured I knew what was wrong — that the job hunt was getting to him or he was suffering an identity crisis, but that wasn’t at all what he described when I asked him what was wrong.“I feel like there’s something I need to be doing, something I’ve forgotten, and I can’t figure out what it is.”He had sent our daughter to school with freshly laundered bedding for her cot, packed a lunch and snack for our son, done the laundry, and cleaned the house, and he had reached a lull in his day. There wasn’t anything, at least not anything important, that he was forgetting. He was bogged down by the mental load, though, and couldn’t seem to think straight. It was a feeling I knew well: the nagging sense that I couldn’t sit down or relax for a moment because there was always something that needed to be done. It’s the creeping anxiety that gnaws at you when you’re the only one carrying the mental load for the family. You’re afraid of something falling through the cracks because you’re so tapped out from trying to make sure nothing falls through the cracks. The anxiety wasn’t a revelation to me, but the fact that it was happening to Rob and not me was eye-opening. This wasn’t what I wanted for either of us. When I examined where we were at the moment, with me devoted to my work and nothing else, I also found myself feeling untethered to my life. When I was solely focused on working, letting everything else fall away, I was irritable and unhappy much of the time. There was a distinct emptiness when I wasn’t tending to any emotional labor at all. My life no longer felt rounded and whole. Neither of us was living in a way that made us feel fulfilled.“It takes trial and error,” writes Betty Friedan in The Second Stage, “to work out the practicalities and the real tradeoffs, with men and women now sharing work and home responsibilities, instead of replacing the dreary realities of one with fantasies of the other.” In other words, it takes a lot of conscious effort to get past the fantasy that the grass is always greener on the other side and start tending the soil where we are. We have to figure out how to balance emotional labor through trial and error. We have to accept that we aren’t going to get it right the first time no matter how clear we are in our intentions. I understood the lesson in theory but was still learning it firsthand.There is a big camp of people (let’s be real, men) who don’t think shared standards should exist. I have my standards; you have yours. If my standards bother you, you can go the extra mile to bring it up to your standard or you can learn to live with it. It’s not my fault that you can’t handle the mess. It’s not hurting anyone; it’s just your personal preference. Why should I have to adopt your standard? Why should I have to change? I’ve heard this argument over and over again. It’s not a problem of my initiative. It’s a problem with your standard.It’s a pretty cruel argument. It argues that one person should either have to suffer or put in a disproportionate amount of work because the other person is too lazy to compromise. It implies that the work we have put into creating a life that keeps everyone comfortable and happy has no value — that we create our standards without purpose or meaning. It’s an argument which states that our standards don’t matter, that our feelings don’t matter, that our work doesn’t matter. When our identity is so wrapped up in emotional labor, it’s an argument that says you don’t matter.This is why emotional labor is such a minefield of hurt and resentment. One person’s arbitrary standard is another person’s lifeline. There’s a huge disconnect when our partners do not understand why we do what we do in regard to emotional labor. It’s not only how we keep our lives running smoothly; it’s how we strive to find happiness. What women seek through their high standards isn’t merely perfectionism — it’s the idea of freedom. When we are drawn into the comparison game, when we feel the pressure to “have it all,” when we try every organizational hack in the book, it’s because we’ve been led to believe that, just around the bend, we will find peace. We will find happiness. We will find the life hack that will finally ease our exhaustion, because we don’t believe we can find that relief in our partnerships.Yet after talking with hundreds of women and seeing the dynamic shift in my own relationship, I can see the lie that perfectionism is selling. There is no plateau of perfection I can reach that will help me care for everyone around me, keeping them comfortable and happy, without becoming utterly depleted. I can’t do it all. No one can. Instead, we can evaluate what parts of our emotional labor are intrinsically important to us. We can soul-search for our real priorities — not the ones that have been predetermined for us, but the ones that stem from us. Then we can do what we do best and rearrange our lives accordingly, with care and attention to detail, not for the benefit of others but for ourselves. We can find the relief we’re searching for by setting boundaries, taking responsibility for ourselves, and surrounding ourselves with people, and especially partners, who do the same.When Rob took on more emotional labor, I became happier and more satisfied with our relationship, which made him more apt to keep doing it. When we were both happy and sharing the responsibility of our life together, emotional labor wasn’t such a drag anymore. In fact, we both enjoyed it, because doing emotional labor together made us feel more in tune with each other. More understood. We were no longer shying away from conversations about what was and was not working, because we were past the point of keeping score or trying to win when it came to emotional labor. We were able to trust each other to do our fair share and learn from each other as we aimed to find what shared responsibility and standards would look like for us.What truly brought us to a balance where we both felt comfortable was the fact that both of us were finally doing the necessary work to understand each other. We were actively working our empathy muscles as we looked at each other’s life experiences. Rob was listening to and processing my lived experiences as I laid them out for him. He was no longer responding with defensiveness, but showing an understanding that led naturally to action. He was giving me what I genuinely wanted — not perfectly folded towels or clean countertops like I thought I wanted, but a partner who truly saw me.The midterms were a feminist triumph: Tuesday was dominated by wins for women — women of color in particular — leading to a record-breaking number of women who will be serving in Congress. There was also a slew of notable firsts, including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (the youngest woman ever elected to Congress), Sharice Davids and Deb Haaland (the first Native American women), and Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar (the first Muslim women). As Cecile Richards put it, “women were the heroes of this election.”Some, however, were the villains.While women were a driving force behind many of the Democrats’ successes, some were also responsible for some of the party’s major losses. After all, it was white female Republicans who brought wins home for Ted Cruz, Ron DeSantis and, possibly, Brian Kemp. Despite efforts to reach across the aisle, the majority of white women who voted for Donald Trump in 2016 have not realized the error of their ways, and likely never will. The hope of changing these key voters’ minds by pointing out the craven bigotry of the GOP or the president’s distinct lack of moral compass was, and remains, a fantasy.It’s time to dispense with the myth of American sisterhood. Women are not a monolith, and the women who support Trumpian Republicans — in the face of horrific injustices — will not change.If they were unmoved by traumatized children being ripped from their mothers’ arms, there is little hope of reaching them on a moral or maternal level. If they are not disgusted by the President’s racist and misogynist speech they are not likely to be swayed by arguments about civility and equality. If the women who are voting for Republicans can look at what is happening to this country and the most marginalized people in it — including themselves — and continue to support them, it may be time to write them off as a lost cause.The truth is that white Republican women are not waiting for their minds to be changed by well-meaning feminists; they are happy to vote for Trump. As author Rebecca Traister has written, “White women, who enjoy proximal power from their association with white men, have often served as the white patriarchy’s most eager foot soldiers.” (Brittney Cooper and Elizabeth Gillespie McRae’s work is invaluable on this front.)I used to believe in spending political energy and capital on changing these women’s minds; I suspect many other women still do. In the run-up to the election, there were think pieces about evangelical women, for example, who could not square their beliefs with Trump’s cruel policies and bombast. I also know plenty of white women who try to chip away at the beliefs of their Trump-supporting female family members, hoping that if they say the right thing or debate convincingly enough, their loved one might see the light.I admire such efforts and imagine it occasionally works. But those who believe it’s possible to flip female Trump supporters on a mass scale are overlooking how unwilling these women are to give up the benefits that white supremacy and patriarchy have bestowed upon them.Instead of focusing on women who have long shown us where their loyalties lay, Democrats are better served by continuing the grassroots organizing we saw by some of the winning women this week: Reaching out to voters who have been abandoned by the left or working to enfranchise voters whose rights have been suppressed.So I’m still counting this week as a feminist win. America’s political representation is one step closer to looking like Americans, and there’s no going back from the wave of activism and democratic participation that led to this point. But it wasn’t only women — and definitely not all women — who got us here. And it won’t be all women who continue the fight.It has become my habit to check social media when I first wake up, a consequence of this modern age. I wasn’t sleeping well, so this morning I checked my phone around 5 a.m., expecting to see continued analysis of the midterm elections and maybe a charming news item about Cardi B. I…A runny nose or cough are normal symptoms during the fall, but this year doctors in the United States and Canada are reporting an escalation of symptoms among a small but notable number of kids. One day children have a cold, and the next they’re experiencing polio-like paralysis. It’s not the first time this has happened, either.The condition is called Acute Flaccid Myelitis, or AFM, and it’s a rare disorder that impacts a person’s nervous system. Over the last couple of months, a rise in AFM cases among kids has puzzled doctors. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says that there have been 219 cases reported in 2018 thus far, and 80 cases confirmed in the U.S. The Public Health Agency of Canada reported that there were a combined 44 cases under investigation or confirmed. Currently, 90 percent of the people affected are children under the age of 18.Clusters of these symptoms appear around flu season. In the fall of both 2014 and 2016, there were similar reports of these inexplicable cases. While there are several theories about the cause, much remains unknown about AFM.“The problem with this condition is [that] to some extent there’s more questions than answers,” says Dr. Jeremy Friedman, an associate pediatrician-in-chief at The Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, who is treating several children with the mysterious paralysis. “In this particular cluster, we’re talking about a dozen cases in a condition which we normally see a few times a year.”Here’s everything you should know.This is the hardest question to answer. The ambiguous nature of AFM comes from the lack of evidence to explain its cause. The periodical nature of the illness offers some clues, according to Friedman. The virus has historically spiked in the late summer and early fall. Right now, doctors are homing in on a group of viruses called enteroviruses.In previous cases, doctors combatting clusters of AFM in 2014 and 2106 have suspected a strain of enterovirus called D68. Enteroviruses are in the same family as polioviruses, and have no vaccine or specific treatment. This means that patients need to wait out the course of the disease.This year, the link is not as clear, says Friedman. “We have seen a few [people] test positive for enterovirus, but only one has tested positive for enterovirus D68,” he says. “That particular strain of enterovirus does not seem to be as big a feature as it perhaps was in 2014.”Also stymieing the search for a solution is the unprecedented nature of the disease. Friedman believes a viral cause is still a strong theory, but more research is needed.The disease affects the body’s nervous system through damage to the spinal cord. Coinciding inflammation in different regions of the spinal cord causes a range of paralysis-related symptoms. “Depending on what part of the spinal cord is affected, you might see an arm that’s paralyzed, you might see a leg that’s paralyzed, and you might see both legs,” says Friedman.Doctors have been able to isolate viruses in the noses of the sick children, but have not actually been able to find evidence of enterovirus in the spinal fluid of affected patients. According to Friedman, this could be a sign that children’s immune systems could be to blame for some of the symptoms they’re experiencing.“It makes it seem a bit more likely that it’s not the virus infection that’s causing the symptoms per se, but it’s more related to the body’s immune response, that’s triggered by the viral infection, that might be causing the symptoms,” he says.There’s currently no cure for AFM, but doctors can alleviate its symptoms. Treatment strategies are different based on what a person is experiencing. Currently, doctors use physical therapy in combination with intravenous anti-inflammatory medication to reduce the damage on the spinal cord. But Friedman told Medium that some children still need other, “more sophisticated” treatments to try and help with immune response.While some children appear to be improving more rapidly than in previous years’ outbreaks, some will require more intensive treatments. With our current understanding of AFM, predicting individual outcomes has proven to be very challenging.“I think that when one counsels families, one has to be really honest and transparent about the fact that there really isn’t enough experience with this condition to accurately predict how each individual case is going to play out,” Friedman says.Most of the kids currently affected by AFM have begun to recover or are already recovered, with a few exceptions, says Friedman. Since the initial news of the Toronto outbreak in October, the number of cases has not grown dramatically.“I would say that I think the cluster of cases that we’ve seen at SickKids seems to have slowed down,” Friedman says. “And really, we haven’t seen a lot of activity over the last week at all.”But there is still work to do. The CDC and Public Health Agency of Canada will continue to investigate the epidemiological aspects of the illness — or the larger picture details of how the disease is transmitted in a community. There are also coordinated efforts by doctors and researchers who are treating the disease on the front lines. “There is, in Canada, a group of pediatric neurologists that are sharing all the cases that are being seen across Canada, to pool whatever information they have to try and sort of maximize the learning that can be extracted from this experience,” Friedman says.The best ways to reduce the risk of AFM are still under investigation, but the CDC recommends that people wash their hands frequently, as it’s one of the best ways to avoid getting sick and spreading disease.Three years ago, I up and moved to what could appropriately be called the middle of nowhere. I’d always lived in or near a major metropolitan area: I grew up in a busy Philadelphia suburb and went to college in New York. But when my partner’s company asked him to relocate somewhere significantly sleepier, I decided to tag along.In my corner of central Pennsylvania, I’m separated from most of my neighbors by sprawling cornfields. The local Dollar General is pretty much the only place to pick up ice cream or eggs after 8 p.m. The pizza joints and Chinese restaurants don’t deliver. There’s no Uber, though I did once see a car with a pink Lyft mustache in the windshield. It was so out of place that I took a picture.It took me a long time to get used to my rural surroundings, but there’s a lot I love about being here. I have backyard chickens and beehives and enough space to let my dogs wander. I never have to get out of bed to make sure the doors are locked, because even if they’re not, there’s nothing to worry about. At night, there are plenty of stars, and in the morning, a whole chorus of birds.While my move was kind of extreme, it falls within a crowded category: Across the United States, people are leaving cities for smaller towns and suburbs, and they’re all experiencing different versions of the same adjustment process. According to U.S. Census data, between 2010 and 2017, several major cities nationwide had negative net domestic migration, meaning that people moving out of these urban centers outnumbered people moving in from other parts of the country. In the New York metro area alone, 900,000 more people left than came in during that time period.Constantine Valhouli, co-founder and research director of real estate analytics firm NeighborhoodX, says the big-city shine that appeals to twentysomethings can start to wear off for those looking for more permanency.“Unless you own property — something very few people can afford to do in a place like New York City or San Francisco — you’re at the mercy of a landlord,” Valhouli says. “I think feeling like you’re never going to have any kind of ownership or be able to play at that level detaches people from the city in some way.”But leaving a city, especially if you’ve lived there for a long time, has its own unique challenges. “One of the first researchers of place attachment said part of who we are comes from where we are,” says Leila Scannell, a postdoctoral research fellow at Royal Roads University in Victoria, British Columbia, who studies the way place affects our identities and behaviors. “If you ask people to write down five things about themselves, 90 percent of the time, one of those things has to do with place.”Because attachment to place is so important, a significant move — like, say, from a vibrant metropolis to a sleepy suburb, or even a smaller city — can send you reeling. “When you lose a place you’re attached to, it can cause grief, disorientation, and longing for the past,” Scannell says. “Homesickness is real, and it can be difficult to navigate.” That’s even more true when your move comes with a major lifestyle adjustment.Which is why Valhouli suggests taking things slow. If you have some flexibility around the timing of your move, “Don’t commit without staying there for a while first,” he says. “Use Airbnb. Stay for a week in the spring and a week in the winter. See what it’s like year-round. If you jump right in, a move like this could be traumatic. Do your research first to make sure it isn’t.”Once you’ve made the leap, you can ease the transition by holding on to some specific aspects of your old life. “Bring as many traditions and elements of your former environment as you can along with you,” Scannell says, even if you have to tweak them to fit your new setting. If you had a windowsill garden at your previous place, for example, set up a new one with similar plants in your backyard. If you always stopped at the same coffee shop on your walk to work, find a similar go-to you can easily drive to. You can’t replicate the hustle and bustle of your old life, but smaller, more focused efforts may be enough.It also helps to cultivate hobbies that are better suited to your new location than they were to your old one. I love to hike with my dog, Olive, for instance, and I started to really fall in love with my adopted hometown when I realized it’s only a few miles from the Appalachian Trail. On days when I don’t feel like walking, I can have my kayak in the Schuylkill River in less than 30 minutes.“Connection to place based on activities is important to people,” Scannell says. “Get to know the unique parts of the place that make it special. Find out what you can do there that you can’t do anywhere else.”One of the most important parts of place attachment are your ties to people in your community. This is also one of the most challenging parts of a move — especially if you’re entering a new, smaller dating pool.Even making new friends can be tough. For the first few months after my move, I knew almost no one. When I started craving connection and friendship, I had to get creative. I signed up for group rock climbing lessons, auditioned for a community play, and asked cool-seeming girls at the gym on friend dates.“As tough as it can be to live in a city, there’s a certain effortlessness,” Valhouli says. “You can go for a stroll and find an art gallery or go to a lecture and meet people with similar interests. When you get into these small towns, you have to be more proactive. When your default is ‘there’s nothing going on,’ you have to work for it a little more,” whether the connections you’re seeking are romantic or platonic.One upside to a more limited social scene: Becoming a member of a tight-knit community, Valhouli says, could give you more of an opening to reshape the things you might not love about your new home. But, he cautions, don’t jump right in.“Don’t try to change things, at least not right away,” he says. “At first, just listen and learn. Find out what people are complaining about and what issues they get active over. It’s amazing what you’ll pick up after a year in a place if you don’t come in trying to be the big-city person with a lot of ideas.”In the meantime, if you’re having more trouble adjusting than you expected, Scannell has good news: One thing she’s learned from her research — some of which focuses on people who report being extremely dissatisfied with where they live — is that things get easier the more time goes by.“If you stay in a place long enough, you’ll form connections and social bonds,” she says. “You’ll learn how to use that place to meet your goals, and you will get attached.” If you can wait it out, the odds go up that you’ll fall at least a little bit in love with your new surroundings, even if that love is complicated.“People start off telling me all the things they hate about their place,” Scannell says. “And by the end of the interview, they’re starting to defend it. They say, ‘Well, but, it’s where I live. It’s still home.’”During a press conference at the White House Wednesday afternoon, CNN’s Jim Acosta got into a heated exchange with President Donald Trump. Acosta, a reporter already seen by Trump—and Trump’s supporters—as either merely an aggressive agent or as a literal secret agent, pressed Trump on how he characterized the so-called migrant caravan making its way through Central America as an “invasion.”“They’re hundreds of miles away, that’s not an invasion,” Acosta said.“Honestly, I think you should let me run the country. You can run CNN, and if you did it well, your ratings would be much higher” Trump replied.As Acosta began another question, Trump looked around the room to call on another journalist. “That’s enough,” he told Acosta, as a White House staffer approached to remove the microphone from Acosta’s hand. The staffer grabbed the mic, but Acosta refused to let go.What happened next is the cause of considerable debate. The controversy foreshadows a larger, looming debate—one not merely about the validity of video evidence, but about reality itself.A few hours after the terse exchange, Acosta tweeted that his White House media pass had been revoked. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders released a statement soon after, along with video of the exchange, claiming that Acosta had assaulted the staffer who had attempted to take the mic from his hand. “President Trump believes in a free press and expects and welcomes tough questions of him and his administration,” she wrote. “We will, however, never tolerate a reporter placing his hands on a young woman just trying to do her job as a White House intern.”Sanders later posted a video that zoomed in on the moment where Acosta refused to release his grip on the microphone. It showed the moment when his arm made contact with the staffer’s. “We will not tolerate the inappropriate behavior clearly documented in this video,” Sanders wrote in the attached tweet.That allegation was roundly denounced by other reporters in the room. By Thursday morning, it wasn’t just the interpretation of Acosta’s downward arm motion or contact with the intern that was the subject of frenzied online debate. It was, instead, whether the video Sanders posted had been doctored—sped up to appear as though Acosta had been more forceful.In a tweet that, at this writing, has been shared nearly 30,000 times and liked over 19,000 times, Rafael Shimunov claimed to show evidence that the video had been doctored. This claim that was quickly picked up by a variety of mainstream news outlets and echoed by others performing their own video analysis.“I’ve edited video for 15+ years,” Shimunov wrote in the tweet. “The White House doctored it.” Shimunov, who has professional experience in technology and media development, later clarified that the White House may not have actually altered the video. Instead, Sanders may have been sharing a clip that was manipulated elsewhere.He pointed a finger at Paul Joseph Watson, a vocal right-wing conspiracy theorist often described as “alt-right” (though he disputes that label). Watson refuted the charge.“The claim being made my [sic] some media outlets that I ‘sped up’ the Acosta video is a brazen lie,” he tweeted, attaching what he claimed is the “original editing,” wherein, he said, “no tracks are ‘sped up’… I just zoomed in.”It all leaves us in a familiar spot. In the days following Trump’s inauguration, a similar debate erupted over his erroneous claims about the size of the crowd that witnessed his swearing in. “This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration—period,” then-White House press secretary Sean Spicer aggressively told reporters after the event.It was, in fact, not at all the largest, a fact made all the more obvious by aerial photos released soon afterward. But the Trump White House stood by its claim, and in subsequent months, it was revealed that official photos of the inauguration were cropped by a government photographer “to make the crowd appear bigger following a personal intervention from the president.”But photos are one thing. Video is entirely another.Claims of doctored video have existed for decades—the Zapruder film remains controversial, for instance—but in the 21st century, amateur conspiracy sleuths, armed with increasingly effective editing software, have taken to analyzing video in the search for hidden clues that help bind together their alternative theories of global events. Since 9/11, video analysis has become a veritable cottage industry on YouTube, leading people down weirder and weirder paths and contributing to a splintering of accepted reality.In 2015, work done by computer scientists from Germany and California suggested video analysis was about to enter a new, and stranger, phase after they released the first clips of a program designed to alter video in real time. Their software, called Face2Face, captures the facial movements of someone in a studio and superimposes those expressions onto a video of someone else—a world leader, for instance.Since then, real-time video alteration has only grown more effective. Technologies that change other aspects of doctored videos — like audio — to make them more convincing have grown more powerful, too. And while there are still ways to spot a faked video (including how often the video subject blinks), knowing the truth will only become more difficult. The general public is usually either not aware of the technology or not sufficiently trained to recognize its effects when they occur.Worse, however, will be a question of sourcing.As the debate Thursday showed, determining ownership of a video found on the internet can often be frustratingly difficult, particularly if you’re trying to establish veracity against the instantaneously deadlines of a frenetic news cycle. It’s difficult to decide, in the mere moments of a video scrolling past on Twitter, whether one thing is more accurate than another. Without the ability to know where something came from, or how it traveled, figuring out how and when video may have been altered will quickly become a fool’s errand.Already, the debate over the Acosta video is a wormhole of conspiracy and conjecture. This might be okay if it were limited to a strange corner of YouTube. The Acosta video debate, however, was created and already mainlined into legitimacy by very prominent and established outlets, none more so than the White House itself, which is attempting — whether conscious or not if the video had been altered — to establish, just as it had following Trump’s inauguration, its own narrative of accepted events.Whether or not you believe the White House’s account of what transpired, or those who claim the video has been altered, one thing is certain: this is the new reality. Debates like this one, over the legitimacy of video evidence, are just beginning. Things will only get weirder from here.The World Health Organization (WHO) keeps tabs on every country’s HALE rating, which stands for “healthy life expectancy at birth.” HALE is a measure of how long the average citizen will live before disease or disability sets in. Worldwide, that average is about 63 years. But according to the WHO’s 2016 data, the residents of Japan know something the rest of us don’t; the average Japanese citizen will live without disability until age 75 — nearly six years longer than the average American.A mixture of diet, DNA, and lifestyle factors likely combine to explain this. But cold-weather exercise may also be part of the equation. “Growing up in Tokyo, it was thought that winter training keeps you away from the doctor, and the Japanese often exercise in winter,” says Shingo Kajimura, an associate professor and lab director at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF). “We can see now this makes a lot of sense.”Kajimura’s lab at UCSF focuses on metabolism and energy balance, and specifically on the function of the body’s fat cells. He says cold exposure during workouts may be beneficial for a number of reasons. For one thing, shivering burns a lot of calories. “Shivering is a very energy-demanding and tiring process,” he says. If your goal when exercising is to lose weight, working out in the cold may help a bit.Some of Kajimura’s research has also shown that spending time in cool or cold environments converts some of the body’s fat cells from unhealthy “white” fat to heat-producing, metabolically active “beige” fat. Kajimura says this conversion seems to help the body acclimatize to cold environments and increases resting energy expenditure — the amount of calories a person burns just sitting around. Research by Kajimura and others has shown that beige fat may limit blood sugar spikes and even combat metabolic disorders like diabetes. “For now, this is just a theory,” he says. “We need more investigation.”Exercise also appears to promote the development of beige fat. Kajimura says one hypothesis is that beige fat helps the body filter byproducts called metabolites that are released during exercise. Evidence suggests certain metabolites can contribute to fatigue and post-exercise soreness. So, for a lot of reasons, “Combining cold stimulus with exercise is a great idea,” he says. “I highly recommend exercising outside in the early morning or swimming in cold water.”Fat and fatigue benefits aside, cool-weather training may offer other perks. Maintaining proper internal temperature is one of the body’s main priorities during any activity, says Mike Jett, an instructor and lab director in exercise physiology at the University of Louisville in Kentucky. Exercise produces heat, which the body must labor to counteract if workout conditions are hot and humid. While that’s not a big deal in most circumstances, it can hamper athletic performance. “If heat accumulates, exercise intensity is reduced,” Jett says. Meanwhile, exercising in cool conditions (or even in cold ones, assuming you’re properly bundled) seems to be optimal. The body can devote all its resources to training and performance, rather than to temperature regulation, Jett says. However, “Working out in an intentionally hot room does not make sense from a performance standpoint,” he adds.There may even be some mental health benefits associated with cold-weather exercise. A small 2004 study from Finland found that winter swimming combatted tension and fatigue and improved overall well-being among 36 middle-aged adults. Cold-water exposure seems to activate the central nervous system and stimulate the circulation of hormones that may promote improved mood and energy, write the authors.There are, of course, risks involved with cold-weather training — especially if you’re training aggressively in frigid conditions. “Winter-sport athletes suffer from a high prevalence of airway dysfunction,” says Michael Kennedy, an associate professor of kinesiology, sport, and recreation at the University of Alberta in Canada.Coughing, wheezing, trouble breathing, and mucus buildup in your throat are all signs of cold-induced lung trauma, Kennedy says. While you want to avoid these as much as possible, he says a sensation of burning in your lungs or a taste of blood in your mouth are your biggest concerns. These are indications of damage “deep in the lung” and may have long-term effects on lung health and function, he says. Unhealthy lung inflammation, scarring of lung tissue, and a kind of cold-induced asthma are all possible from exercising in freezing temps without proper protection, he says.If you’re training in temps below 40 degrees, you should take extra precautions to protect your lungs. “Cover your mouth with a buff or some sort of quick-dry neck covering,” Kennedy says. Also, don’t go back indoors until your breathing has slowed to normal. “There is something called the burden of rewarming where, if your breathing is still elevated, it causes more water to be sucked out of the airway,” he says. That can promote lung stress.Cold-weather exposure may also be risky for people with heart disease. “When you’re exposed to cold, the body tries to prevent heat loss by shrinking the blood vessels,” Kajimura explains. This can elevate a person’s blood pressure and could be bad news for someone with hypertension or heart trouble, he says.But taken together, most of the research suggests that working out in cool or cold conditions is good for you. That doesn’t mean you should be running in shorts and a T-shirt when it’s 10 degrees out. If you’re properly geared up and taking care to shield your lungs from too much dry, icy air, there’s no reason to take your workouts indoors this winter.The Copyright in the Digital Single Market Directive had been under negotiation for years, and it was set to be the first update to E.U. copyright since the 2001 Copyright Directive. In the 17 intervening years, the copyright landscape had experienced massive shifts. The new Directive was seen as a must-pass piece of omnibus legislation comprising dozens of wonky and technical fixes to E.U. copyright rules. It was largely seen as uncontroversial — that is, until May 25.That was the day German MEP Axel Voss reinserted two long-abandoned, hugely controversial rules into the draft regulation:Both of these proposals were and are hugely controversial. The E.U.’s own technical experts had considered and discarded them after earlier efforts along these lines ended in disaster. Germany had tried “Link Taxes,” but Google simply boycotted any site demanding a link license, which gave newspapers no choice but to offer Google free licenses. Google. Google’s smaller competitors, including European sites, did not receive the same offer, meaning that a measure intended to curb Google’s dominance ended up increasing it instead.As for Article 13, critics noted significant problems with the voluntary copyright filter Google has already built: YouTube’s “ContentID” system. Content ID is a $60,000,000 copyright enforcement system that allows a few trusted rightsholders to add their copyrighted works to its database and either block any copies of those works, or force ads to appear on any videos the system believes contains their copyrighted works and funnel the ad revenue to these rightsholders’ accounts.ContentID is widely loathed. The rightsholders who use it complain that it doesn’t catch enough infringement. The creators whose videos are flagged by the system say its hair-trigger blocking behavior catches all manner of innocent works, including public domain NASA Mars lander footage, birdsong, background noise, silence, public domain musical compositions, and copyrighted works used in accordance with “Fair Use” and “Fair Dealing.” And YouTube’s army of users complain that ContentID blocks their favorite videos.Rather than fixing it, Article 13 would massively expand this deeply flawed system. Right now, ContentID only filters videos’ soundtracks. Article 13 would expand the filter to consider text, music, video, still photos, software code, game mods, 3D printing files, and anything else that might be copyrighted. ContentID currently allows only a small set of trusted rightsholders to add to its blacklist; Article 13 would let all 2,000,000,000+ internet users add to these blacklists. ContentID reserves the right to cancel a rightsholder’s access to its blacklists for abusing the system — falsely claiming copyright through carelessness or malice, for example — while Article 13 would require perpetual access for rightsholders, even anonymous parties claiming to be rightsholders. Article 13 would give them the power to block anything and everything from being posted to the Internet.These proposals were introduced at the end of May. By late June, more than a million Europeans had mobilized in opposition, forcing a vote in the European Parliament to allow debate before the Directive was passed. Alas, that vote went in Voss’s favor, and Articles 11 and 13 were included in the near-final version of the Directive. This was not so much a victory for Voss as it was a defeat for his opponents, who outnumbered him but who were divided by a series of slightly different proposals amending or striking out Articles 11 and 13.The new Directive is now in the “trilogues” — closed-door negotiations between the E.U.’s Parliament and individual national governments. Normally, these are a formality that takes place out of public view. However, the current trilogue is both more contested and more public than any in the E.U.’s history.The European Court of Justice has ruled that Europeans are entitled to know what happens in these trilogue negotiations, and German Pirate Party MEP Julia Reda has pledged to publish the negotiating documents (and she’s kept her word).What’s more, the trilogues coincide with political changes in Italy, and the Italian government has withdrawn its support for Articles 11 and 13. This brings the proportion of Europeans who oppose these articles past the critical threshold of 35%, a theoretical “blocking minority” that could scuttle the entire proposal (assuming they can avoid the trap the opposition fell into last time: agreeing that these rules aren’t appropriate but disagreeing on what to do about it).It’s not clear what will happen next. If these rules are meant to cut Big Tech down to size, they’re sure to disappoint. Google, Facebook, Twitter, Apple, and the other tech giants are the only companies big enough to be able to afford the hundreds of millions it will cost to follow the new rules. Small competitors in the E.U. just don’t have that kind of cash. Freed from any threat of competition from E.U. companies, dominant tech platforms will be left to grow unchecked. They will present even more of a threat to democratic discourse, privacy, and competition than they already do.And the problems these rules will cause won’t be confined to the E.U. If implemented today, the new rules would force online communications platforms to either block all users in the E.U. or censor the whole world’s internet.Even if you think the internet’s main function is to serve up entertainment and news, these rules are still a bad idea. But the internet is more than that: it’s our new global nervous system. These rules will affect education, civic and political engagement, family life, employment, and a thousand other fields of human endeavor. To pass them would be an act of gross regulatory malpractice in a parliament charged with the orderly governance of more than 508,000,000 people.We used to make fun of their house. We would ride our bikes by on a Friday night and stick up our middle fingers and laugh at them if they were out on their porch. Once, one of my friends stole the Skrewdriver flag from their front yard. They had security cameras all over the property; we knew they had plenty of guns inside. We were playing with fire, and we liked it. It was fun.The Vinlanders Social Club claimed to be a men’s club obsessed with Nordic traditions. Founded by Brien James, who was rumored to have been kicked out of the Outlaw Hammerskins for being too violent, and Eric Fairburn, who memorably had M-U-R-D-E-R tattooed across his neck, the Vinlanders were clearly a white power group, and no one thought otherwise.Sometime in the mid-2000s, the Vinlanders bought a house in Indianapolis just a few blocks from mine. They put up their flags like they were staking out their territory—sometimes they flew just a Confederate flag, sometimes other flags emblazoned with vague racist or nationalist iconolatry, sometimes the Nazi flag, sometimes the Skrewdriver flag.They would show up around the neighborhood every couple weeks, over by Lo-Bills or the Rent-a-Center, flashing their tattoos, lacing their boots in one way or another to show their various allegiances. Sometimes they started fights at shows, they handed out flyers covered with spelling mistakes and racial slurs, but mostly they were fighting with each other, calling each other “pussy.” The Vinlanders seemed to be endlessly drunk and forever posing for pictures, shirts off, showing off their tattoos in their backyard, over by their collapsing privacy fence, next to their overflowing trash bins. They were, honestly, ridiculous.I was at home rocking my newborn when three Vinlanders were drinking at an Irish pub a few miles away and attacked a black man. They beat him unconscious in the middle of the street and witnesses said threatened to kill all the bystanders who were scrambling for their phones to call the police. Over the next few years, their ideology spread and they became more violent. Eric Fairburn (after being released for beating the man downtown) was re-arrested for the murder of another man. Vinlander Adrian Apodaca was convicted in a murder-for-hire plot. Two others were just released this summer after a mistrial, accused of murdering a white woman because she was dating a black man. Brien James, who I sometimes saw shopping at Kmart on Southern Avenue, became a suspect in the near-death beating of a fellow white nationalist over disagreements on how their organizations should be run.My riding by and flipping them the bird was barely heroic—in fact, the reason I am writing this is precisely because it wasn’t. That was 2006 or so, before Trump. Even before Obama. I didn’t take these guys seriously; in the Midwest, everyone like me had at least one cousin like this. They were buffoons and lived on the fringes of our existence. I assumed they were a throwback to a hideous yesteryear. I lived in a very white and very straight world—I had no idea how harmful or dangerous these guys could be. After all, it wasn’t me they were after.I’m not alone. Most of us in white America didn’t see the rise of the alt-right and of undaunted, normalized racism coming. We also weren’t looking. But I lived right where these groups were trying to grow their base: my poor, working-class, and nearly all-white neighborhood with our crumbling houses, minimum-wage jobs, and busted chain link fences. It was a prime location for racist skinheads to recruit. I moved out of that neighborhood not because I didn’t love and feel deep fellowship with my non-Vinlander neighbors, but because I knew that being poor and having a white son in a neighborhood like that made him vulnerable to the rage. They were there to feed off our misfortunes.I’ve watched guys get recruited into these scenes over the years. The Midwest has this incredible way of making you feel small; it’s something about that huge open sky and the sprawling, endless, broken-down cities. Girls fall into crap marriages, and guys fall into whoever is going to tell them they have meaning that reaches beyond their Rust Belt lives.I have since moved back to the South, a place I cherish and an identity I claim. I love the South dearly. I love the way dusk falls on tobacco and dust falls on the road behind you when you’re driving home. The air feels lighter to me down here, but the history heavier. To be white, working-class, and Southern comes with a huge responsibility. We live within a referendum on race.Just 30 minutes north of my home in Greensboro, the reported imperial wizard of the Ku Klux Klan peddles hate literature and sells Klan memberships out of his rented house in Pelham (when he’s not in jail for DUI). And 30 minutes west of me, the state chairman of the League of the South makes podcasts about building a fascist movement in downtown Kernersville. Because of history, white folks in the South have a duty to refute this legacy. Sometimes it feels cumbersome, like an albatross; sometimes it feels like a great honor to hold this point of change in our hands.The rest of the country likes to—perhaps needs to—think of the South as a hugely backward place, in the style of Dukes of Hazzard or, worse, Deliverance. But the South I know is a community of queers and transfolk, immigrants and refugees. One yard up the street from me is planted entirely with Thai basil instead of grass and my neighbor gives me tomato seeds that come from his daddy’s sharecropping days. Here, we are mismatched and scrappy, imperfect and great.Much of the new South is like this. Small cities like Siler City, where white supremacist David Duke once rallied in an anti-immigrant fervor, have been re-energized by newcomers. It’s now alive with mariachi bands and brightly painted “tiendas” that saved the town from economic collapse. Mountain towns like Jefferson have an elderly couple who survived the Holocaust homesteading on its outskirts, and coastal towns like New Bern have Burmese grandmothers teaching Baptist moms to make ngapi.When I woke the other morning to see that a local tattoo artist had posted a hate group tattoo in his gallery of recent works, I knew exactly what that meant and who that threatened. I love the South, my neighborhood, and my family. I love our gardens and our mosque and our churches and the Honduran car repair place. I love my neighbor who leans over his children playfully in the yard and makes a tent out of his dreads for them to play in.This is my community and supremacists are not welcome here.I’m not going to name the artist who did the tattoo because I’m interested in discussing complicity in a way that goes beyond the confines and trench-digging, of my hometown. What matters most is how he responded to being told he had done a hate group’s tattoo: He told us he didn’t care. “It’s not my tattoo, so why do I care?” he wrote in several places before he fell to public pressure and apologized.The thing is, I don’t think we get to not care. Two days before he inked the “Proud Boy” tattoo, a white gunman tried to get into an African-American church in Kentucky and ended up shooting two people of color in a grocery store, one of them a black grandfather shopping with his grandson. The same day the tattoo was posted to social media and hashtagged with the dog whistle #ProudBoys, a man in Florida was being arrested for mailing bombs to leftist targets. While the tattoo artist was using a laughter emoji to respond to those questioning him, 11 people were murdered in their Pittsburgh synagogue by a white supremacist.No one is claiming that the tattoo artist committed these crimes. After all, his alibi is solid; he was busy tattooing hate symbols on someone’s forearm. No one believes these men who attacked and killed people had anything to do with each other directly (the extremist alt-right communities are notoriously fragmented and divided). Even the subjects of the tattoo—the Proud Boys—seem to position themselves above this general white supremacist fray. They claim to be somehow both the upstanding gentleman and the belligerent brawlers of the alt-right movement.Before Gavin McInnes founded the Proud Boys, he co-founded Vice Media and earned the title of “The Godfather of Hipsterdom.” McInnes is keenly aware of a toxic, binary ideology that has come to define modern American politics and that language is central to that environment. Relying heavily on double-dealing rhetoric, he wants Proud Boys to seep into the cracks that form through this tension.Liberal and progressive white people always relied heavily on the trope of bigots being ridge-runners and backwoods hillbillies, probably as a way to distance themselves and signal their “differences.” McInnes seems well aware of this and is actively trying to create an alternative supremacist that can’t be pegged, one that fits into an edgy popular culture.Proud Boys are vocal in their dislike of bumbling Klansmen and goose-stepping Nazis. They want to make clear that they are not your Snuffy Smith racists of yesteryear. Proud Boys present themselves as today’s hate group sophisticates, smoking cigars after office jobs and putting back a few craft beers with the boys. They boast that they are not an all-white organization nor segregationists, but instead simply believe in the supremacy of “white Western culture.” As a result, Proud Boys have a handful of men of color in their ranks who seem to have been drawn in by the rampant misogyny and the promise of joining white cultural supremacy, somehow ignoring the inherent racism in doing so.Their proclamations are rarely corroborated by the actions of rank-and-file Proud Boys who ceaselessly post racial slurs on white nationalist internet pages and regularly show up at white nationalist rallies serving as the muscle to protect the supremacists (Charlottesville “Unite the Right” organizer Jason Kessler was a Proud Boy).McInnes doesn’t really even seem to believe his own claims about the organization: He announced the founding of the group in Taki’s Magazine, a far-right publication that also regularly publishes Richard Spencer and Jared Taylor. In the same breath he disavows déclassé racists, he will claim, “I don’t want our culture diluted. We need to close the borders now and let everyone assimilate to a Western, white, English-speaking way of life.”If Brien James and the Vinlanders were bottom feeders, then McInnes and the Proud Boys are designed to feed off the darker angels of mainstream white America: the jaded suburban boys who felt they were promised more than the dull pencil-pushing lives they now lead. Proud Boys unapologetically describe themselves as “Western chauvinists,” and unapologetic is the point. They believe that apologizing for their superiority—their maleness and their white culture—shows weakness and that any movements that hope to shift power away from them are the enemy. While they are quick to point out that they hate both the Klan and Nazis, Proud Boys seem singularly focused on physically attacking antifascists, socialists, anarchists, and people of color.For years, McInnes had a reputation of being somewhere between a shock jock and a comedian, and he is purposefully evasive in his language. Railing against politically correct culture ad nauseum, he insists that Proud Boys are pro-women and it is feminists who are attacking women’s rights. Liberals are the racists for insisting on affirmative action that hurts black people who can’t achieve. “Western chauvinism” is progressively pro-gay because it is anti-Islamic backwardness. The act of calling out hate speech is hate speech. Raping a woman with short hair is actually her raping you because it’s like having sex with a boy. You’re a racist if you think saying the n-word is a slur. You’re a bitch if you think calling you a bitch is bitchy.There is nothing to apologize for, everything turns around, everything is gaslit, if you call it gaslighting you’re gaslighting, ceci n’est pas une pipe, ceci n’est pas fascism. McInnes packages his anti-PC rhetoric as something new and edgy, but of course it’s the most antiquated view out there: If you are offended, then maybe you need to learn how to take a joke.If you work through McInnes’ nearly two decades of progressively provocative and increasingly hate-filled writing and “humor,” or listen to the hours upon hours of his show and media interviews, it starts to matter less and less if Proud Boys are nationalists or racists or homophobes or what their actual politics are. Their purpose is plainly to obliterate opposition using age-old practices of minimizing, verbal abuse, and ultimately, physical assault. The space they are trying to create is violent and soulless and without standards or ethics or care. It the type of space preordained to be dominated by those who already have power.Beyond this duplicitous ideological wordplay, the one solid and consistent piece of the Proud Boys is their cardinal insistence on violence. McInnes, on his own show, drops his chicanery: “We will kill you. That’s the Proud Boys in a nutshell. We will kill you.” McInnes frequently encourages violence in his speaking and writing, especially against Muslims and immigrants, but honestly, against whomever: “Choke a motherfucker. Choke a bitch. Choke a tranny,” he says on the show.And Proud Boys do. Proud Boy fights against protesters have become commonplace at rallies around immigration or race since Trump’s election. Proud Boys were among the group arrested for attacking DeAndre Harris in Charlottesville, beating him with poles, metal pipes, and wooden slabs. Two weekends ago, brawls with Proud Boys broke out on opposite coasts in Portland and New York City. Video from the New York sidewalk outside the venue where McInnes was speaking shows Proud Boys repeatedly kicking a protester in the head while yelling, “Faggot. Faggot. Foreigner. Faggot.”McInnes, of course, won’t apologize. He says “faggot” isn’t hate speech; it’s what you call a man who cries. He says the man on the sidewalk was crying.In this America, when you don’t care, you are siding with the oppressor.The third step in becoming a Proud Boy, apparently, is to get the Proud Boy tattoo. The fourth step is to “engage in a major conflict for the cause.”The first step my hometown needs to take is to state clearly and without caveat that hate is not welcome here.Unfortunately, that is not what’s been done. The response of the Greensboro tattoo artist and many of his supporters mirrors the Proud Boy toxic brew of flippancy, dismissiveness, and intimidation. When a second shop discovered they had a self-professed Proud Boy working for them, they issued an apology, a mental health explanation for his behavior, and an assurance he had left the Proud Boys and that he is a really good guy (and then, they deleted the apology). Accusations that those who voiced concern about hate speech were just trying to cause problems and ruin careers, that they had hidden agendas or were being too sensitive, are the type of responses that evade the serious problems at hand by shifting the focus to those speaking out.Others defended the tattoo artists because they knew them and liked them or their art personally. Even when astigmatic, the instinct to protect your friends is right and true. But so is the instinct to protect your community.The problem is, in Trump’s America, whether you are branding your arm or defending your friend or silently standing by, you are always the soldier for someone’s cause. You can’t bow out. To actually be something of your own design—something relevant—you have to do something, not defect or deflect.From our tattoo shops to our neighborhoods, we can choose to make it clear that hate is not welcome here. We can be articulate and clear and create communities very much the opposite of McInnes’ nebulous and ethically adrift wasteland. If we make our spaces explicitly safe for people of color, women, queers, and immigrants, then they become inhospitable to hatred. And we will not have to issue uncomfortable apologies or do damage control. If we do it before they come, they will not buy a house a few blocks from us, they will not fly their flags, and they will not hurt the people we love.It is scary and uncomfortable and hard to be at odds with people in your community, to push into public debate, to embrace tension. I have done it imperfectly. But I have also made the mistake of not taking a hate group moving to my neighborhood seriously. At the time, I didn’t think about all the ways my silence, and that of my neighbors, made that possible. It is true that by now nearly all Vinlanders have gone to prison and are no longer a threat. Brien James somehow made it through and is no longer a Vinlander. In fact, he is now the Indiana representative for the Proud Boys.I have seen the mistakes of my own inaction, but being able to take responsibility is one of the privileges of my life. I am older now and come to know the divinity of community. I have listened past my own echo to hear the calls of a thousand forests’ birds. I live in a world where caring is brave. And I won’t apologize.“Wireless charging” features built into recent devices, like the iPhone XS, certainly make it sound like our present-day consumer tech is cordless. That’s not quite true, of course. A fancy charging pad still needs to be plugged into something — a wall outlet, say — meaning there’s a lot to trip over even after upgrading to the latest and greatest smartphones.And so, the inevitable question arises: When will we finally ditch the wires altogether? It really depends on who you ask, and how far into the future you’re thinking.The technology required for true wireless charging has been investigated as far back as 1890, first by inventor and scientist Nikola Tesla, who successfully transmitted power over long distances in demonstrations, but never completed his research. Tesla — the man, not the car company — actually invented many modern wireless electricity techniques almost 100 years ago, including the basis for capacitive charging today. A century later, we’re only just beginning to expand on these ideas.The wireless charging in current phones uses a technology called “inductive coupling,” which works over very short distances. This method isn’t new, and it’s barely “wireless”: old electric toothbrushes made by Oral-B used it in the 1990s, for example.If you have a phone that supports wireless charging today, you can hover it about a centimeter off its pad and maintain the current. But practically speaking, the device needs to rest on top of it. There’s a tight coil of copper in the charger, which generates an electromagnetic field. That field is received by another coil in the back of your phone, and then it’s converted back into electricity.Interest in this technology surged after Apple adopted wireless charging last year for the iPhone X and iPhone 8. This caused the smartphone industry to finally settle on a wireless charging standard called Qi, which guarantees compatibility with a wide range of chargers. Qi has been around for years in various forms, with many Android phones using the technology as far back as the Palm Pre in 2009.The addition of Qi to the iPhone led to a slew of chargers joining the market almost overnight. Apple, with its massive market share, sent a clear signal: Wireless charging is here to stay. Suddenly, Qi pads were everywhere — IKEA has even experimented with building the technology directly into its furniture.While Qi may not be so exciting, other wireless innovations show promise, and aren’t actually that far away.Resonant inductive coupling, which shares many similarities with inductive coupling, has one side of the copper coil “resonate” or vibrate, resulting in the ability to send power over much higher distances in much higher voltages (up to a theoretical 15 feet) via systems like Energous’s WattUp.Researchers are actively working on these ideas, with some demonstrations, at scale, already available. Disney in 2017 showed off a “living room” prototype that can power 10 devices wirelessly, including an iPhone, a lamp, and other objects. The idea, in the long term, is to hide a bunch of coils in your walls and forget wires entirely. But today, there’s a catch: Disney asks that you don’t stand within 46 centimeters of the giant copper pole in the middle of the room, as it exceeds federal guidelines relating to human energy exposure.Stephen R. Rizzone, president and CEO of Energous Corporation, told Medium that the company seeks a more convenient future, “where electronic devices are continually ‘topped off’ versus the current need to monitor electronic devices and actively seek out a charging source to recharge.”Another company, Cota, promises a charging experience similar to Wi-Fi: just install a transmitter and compatible devices will be powered when in range. The company is also working on a “forever battery” that will fit into old devices — gadgets that take AA batteries, for example — to make its wireless technology backwards compatible.Meanwhile, one of the largest barriers for these types of products is safety and regulation.On one hand, wireless charging actually reduces electric shock risk, because open wall outlets would no longer be necessary — a kid couldn’t put a fork through a wall and into the copper coils beyond. On the other hand, there’s a large unknown relating to the safety of magnetic fields and the human body. WiTricity, another startup in the space, claims the risks are no higher than with any other wireless technology (though, of course, it would say that).There’s also the issue of miniaturization. It’s one thing to put a big charging coil in your phone, but how about lightbulbs, sound bars, or even a laptop? As devices get thinner, will we still be able to fit this kind of technology inside? Looking further out, questions remain around whether or not it’s possible to beam enough electricity to power a TV, computer, and a bunch of phones at the same time.“The ability to walk from your kitchen through the family room and into your bedroom continually charging your smartphone with safe wireless charging power — this reality is closer than you think,” he said.He’s right that true wireless is on the horizon, and we can look to electric cars for hints today. WiTricity, which started with a focus on consumer applications but recently pivoted to wireless car charging, already has its products out in the world. Just drive your electric car over the company’s charging mat to fill the battery to full capacity overnight.By the end of next decade, it’s likely many of us will experience wireless power at home or at the office, as it becomes the new standard and changes the way we think about wires. The death of cables has been long and painful, but it’s genuinely on the horizon, for the first time.Author’s Note: Parts of President Trump’s speech have been rearranged and slightly edited for clarity and narrative. Considering 70 percent of his claims are false or misleading anyway, the liberty felt appropriate.About 30 minutes into the president’s speech, something inside me snapped. I’d been in Trumpworld for over eight hours, wholly submerged in the MAGAsphere, and I thought I’d acclimated. I thought I was immune to the headaches and nausea and screaming angry outbursts that are common when a liberal is exposed to Donald Trump and 12,000 of his rally-goers. No matter what I heard or saw from the president and his people, I could handle it, I thought—I could hold their world in my hand, curious, and observe it as closely as I wanted without putting myself in any danger. I was wrong.Sweating and cursing uncontrollably, head on a swivel, I pushed my way out of the overflow crowd gathered outside the Ford Center in downtown Evansville, Indiana, where the president was inside rallying the base into a fever pitch. A massive video screen—a Jumbotron, really—had been placed on top of a white trailer outside the arena and was broadcasting the feed to the 2,000 or so supporters who hadn’t been able to fit inside.The president’s words echoed from the P.A. system, and I picked up the pace, literally biting down on my tongue as I put as much distance between myself and a potential punch to the back of the head as possible. There was one place I knew I would be safe. There, on the other side of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., behind a wall of police officers: protesters. 500 of them, at least, holding signs, chanting, expressing all their pent-up frustration and anger while surrounded by a small army of like-minded liberals.“My people,” I thought, as I approached the curb where a group of Trump supporters were still engaging in a back-and-forth with the protesters. Right as I walked up, however, they launched into a particularly accusatory chant:“Go home, ra-cists!”“Go home, ra-cists!”“Go home, ra-cists!”They were screaming, faces scrunched in anger, spittle flying from their lips, and they were pointing at us—at me. I wanted to yell out, “No, wait! I’m on your team,” but of course, in that moment, I wasn’t. It didn’t matter that I’d been yelling in the streets since Occupy or that I canvassed for Bernie, voted for Hillary, and currently have a “Donnelly for Senate” sign planted in my yard. Nothing I had ever done or said or believed mattered—I was no longer an individual person.In that moment, the only thing that mattered was the side of the street I was standing on.I encountered my first Trump supporters a few miles outside of downtown Evansville, in the parking lot of a liquor store. I’d made the 175-mile journey down I-69 in less than three hours, the vast rural nothingness between Indianapolis and Evansville blurring together into one never-ending unincorporated township, and I had some time to kill before checking into the hotel. I swung into the Liquor Locker off the expressway to pick up a post-rally sixer, and that’s when I saw them. Two white guys in their early twenties, sporting neon ’80s-style sunglasses, flip-flops, and matching American flag shorts. As if that didn’t give them away, they’d written TRUMP 2020 #MAGA on the dirty back window of their silver SUV. Watching them lugging beer out of the store, giddy and laughing, I was reminded of being in college and loading up the van before going to Panama City for spring break 2003 #SUYT. Which got me thinking about all the bad decisions I made when I was that age, which led to the inevitable question: Could I have been one of those dudes? If I’d been born in the late ’90s, and not the early ’80s, could I have been a Trump bro?My initial reaction was to say, “Fuck no.” I might have made some bad decisions when I was that age, done some things I’m not proud of, brought shame to my parents, but in no way could I have ever been one of those guys, pregaming for a Donald Trump rally. Right? The more I thought on it, the less certain I became.Having grown up in a privileged, whitewashed suburban community outside Indianapolis, and having attended a nearby college where I hung out exclusively with other privileged white suburbanites, I had a wildly skewed, totally ignorant perception of the world outside my own existence at that age. And while I certainly can’t imagine, at any age, finding appeal in Trump’s anti-immigrant, racist rhetoric, I couldn’t help but wonder, for instance, if maybe I could’ve been convinced his war against political correctness was a worthy one—that my constitutional right to say something offensive in casual conversation with friends, which I did all the time back then, outweighed the personal hurt and discomfort it caused in others who might hear me. I really don’t know. Maybe. Probably.And could I have been led to believe, if all my frat brothers also believed it, that the white man was being unfairly targeted, discriminated against, even—that it was us who were the victims? I mean, I would fucking hope not. I would hope that my 21-year-old self, despite such a limited worldview, would have seen that for the utter bullshit it is. But honestly, I can’t say for certain.What I know for sure is that 21-year-old me, like 36-year-old me, would have been a Bernie supporter, but that the younger version, unlike the older, would not have voted for Hillary, not after the DNC rigged the primary in her favor. I also know that I would have found candidate Trump amusing and probably totally harmless—I did, after all, host a weekly Thursday evening get-together during my junior year of college, not to play beer pong or deal poker, but to watch The Apprentice at nine o’clock on NBC. It cracked us up, the over-the-topness of it all, and we hollered, “You’re fired!” at each other for the better part of a year.But would all that have been enough to earn my vote? Would his celebrity appeal and the male chauvinism and his decidedly non-political correctness have been enough to override the values my parents—both devoted Democrats—instilled in me? Well, in real life, back in 2000, my first ever vote was cast for Ralph Nader, who I thought was going to legalize marijuana. So, yeah, I’m pretty sure I would have sold my parents values out in a heartbeat, at that age.“And once you’re on the Trump train,” I thought, with a shiver, as I walked into the Liquor Locker, “you’re only a stop away from pregaming in your American flag shorts.”Originally, I had planned on staying in the DoubleTree hotel across the street from the Ford Center, but when I’d gone to book a room that morning, all 241 were sold out. They had been for three days, filled with Trumpworld support staff and rally personnel. Instead, I ended up at the only place downtown that had an available room, Le Merigot Hotel, which was connected to the Tropicana casino and billed as “Evansville’s first boutique hotel.”In order to get from my room to the street, I first had to cross the casino floor, 200 yards of red-carpeted temptation. I made it past dangling cigarettes, trays of sweating cocktails, and a silver-haired woman in a pink Playboy bunny shirt, but I couldn’t escape the rows and rows of penny slots. I grabbed at my wallet, opening it to reveal a solitary dollar bill. Machines were plink-plinking all around me, bells were ringing, people were winning. I could feel my heart beat a little faster as I sat down next to a lady huffing a cigarette and aggressively smacking her machine’s spin button. I pumped in my last dollar, an act that gave me a tingle of shame mixed with adrenaline. I felt like a junky about to spike a vein. I hit spin.This—right here on the floor of the Tropicana Evansville—this was the American dream. Forget the antiquated ideal of the 1950s, that nonsense about how anyone no matter who they were or where they came from (assuming they weren’t black or brown or female) could forge a better existence for themselves in this country through dedication, initiative, and a lifetime of hard work. Fuck that shit. Now it’s all about making the most amount of money in the shortest amount of time with the least amount of effort. The American dream of today is about going viral, becoming a YouTube influencer, a reality TV star, an Instagram endorser; it’s about buying a Powerball ticket, finding Boardwalk on a box of McDonald’s fries, meeting an angel investor on an elevator. The new American dream is pulling the lever for Donald Trump and making all your problems disappear.A minute later, after only three spins, my dream was dead, and I was slinging my backpack over my shoulder and walking out onto the street, forced to go to work.“Why are you doing this again?” My wife’s parting words bounced around my head as I made the short walk from the hotel to the Ford Center. It was a fair question. It’s not like anyone was paying me to be there. I hadn’t been contracted to write a story; George Soros hadn’t paid me to protest. Why in the hell was I attending a Donald Trump rally?What I told my wife, and it was the truth, was that I wanted to experience a Trump rally as one of his followers experiences it. I wanted to get lost in the spectacle and forget about the politics of it all. I wanted, somehow, to humanize Trump supporters, turn them back into individuals in my mind. I’d been having a hard time breathing deep and staying calm about the future of our country as we careened toward midterms. I was hoping that by exposing myself to Trumpworld, by allowing myself to get swept up in the MAGAness of it all, I would come away with some valued insight, an understanding of his supporters that would make me feel not so certain that we were on a collision course toward civil war.What I didn’t tell her was that when I’d received the text from Trump inviting me to the rally, my first thought had been: I have to go. Which is kind of a weird reaction, I must admit, from someone with so much disdain for the guy. But the truth is, I felt drawn to the rally, as if some greater gravitational force were pulling from my couch, out of my bubble, and into Trumpworld. I had to know what it was like.I rounded the corner at Sycamore and Sixth, and there it was. My first Donald Trump rally. And, holy shit, I had not expected the line to be so long. It snaked from the entrance of the Ford Center, coiling down Main Street, around the Ford Center, and disappearing off into the distance. There were so many people spread out over such a long distance it was impossible to get an accurate count: I guessed somewhere north of 5,000, and south of 63 million.A lot gets made of the “circus-like” atmosphere accompanying Trump rallies, but as I joined the tail end of the line, I was struck by how subdued the vibe was. Garth Brooks wasn’t blaring loudly from a handheld speaker, nobody was aggressively leading patriotic chants, a big-bellied shirtless man didn’t run up and down the street waving an American flag—people were just kind of standing around, listlessly, waiting for the line to start moving so they could all shuffle into an enclosed, air-conditioned space. It reminded me more of the end of the circus, when all the exhausted animals are herded onto the train bound for the next town. Then again, it was 90 degrees and hair-curlingly humid, and a lot of these people had been standing in line without shade for hours, prompting numerous heat-related ambulance runs. I don’t think I would have been much in the mood for a “Lock her up!” chant at that point either.The free tickets to the event had explicitly stated there was no dress code, and yet, I noticed that most everyone had come dressed uniformly anyway, depending on their generation. The older crowd, the grandparents, the baby boomers were the most overt and transparent in their devotion to the president, with many sporting 2020 campaign gear and other Trump-specific apparel.The generation behind them, generation X, were much less politically expressive, probably because many looked to have just come from work. There were plenty of construction boots, flannel shirts, and nursing scrubs, but also people wearing khakis and polos, blouses and dress skirts. To signify their support, they wore buttons pinned to their chest or carried small American flags on tiny sticks.Their kids, the grandchildren, the millennials, tended to shy away from anything Trump-specific, sticking exclusively to red-white-and-blue, stars-and-stripes, Fourth-of-July themed clothes. Almost as if they’d committed to the America First message, but still weren’t sure about the messenger.The one thing that cut across generational lines were the MAGA hats. One out of every three supporters, it seemed, was wearing one, and I got the impression that, for some, particularly the kids—who wore them flat-billed or backward—putting on that red MAGA hat was their favorite part of being a Trump supporter.There was only one person, out of all those thousands in line, whose attire appeared to represent an opposition viewpoint, and it sure as hell wasn’t me. I’d left my “Repeal and Go F$%K Yourself” shirt back home, instead going with a red IU basketball tee (Hoosier hoops being one of the last unifying symbols left in the state of Indiana).Sandwiched between an old white guy with a plug of chewing tobacco in his cheek and a young white man in a button-up dress shirt and wraparound black glasses, stood a solitary woman dressed in a simple ankle-length red dress, with an attached red cloak that appeared to be made out of a bedsheet. Her head, bowed in silence, was obscured by a white bonnet, and her hands were folded in front of her stomach.Karen B. Supak grew up the daughter of a historian in southern Mississippi. She used to get lessons on nonviolent resistance whenever the family crossed over the bridge in Selma on their way to visit her grandmother in Alabama. In high school, she was a punk rock kid who was refused service for the way she was dressed and eventually fled for California, to UC Berkeley, arriving on campus on the eve of the 30th anniversary of the free speech movement. She’s been peacefully protesting various civil-rights affronts since the Rodney King verdict back in ’91.Never like this though. Never embedded with the opposition, dressed as a symbol of their oppression, and committed to a vow of silence (she had a brief statement written out on her phone explaining who she was and her purpose, in case anyone asked). The change in approach was out of necessity. Karen, who lives in Evansville, has a 16-year-old son, a budding Trump supporter, who wanted to see the president speak.“He’s a 16-year-old white boy who lives in southwestern Indiana and comes from a family of privilege,” Karen would explain later, laughing at the irony of it all. “I can absolutely see the attraction if you were growing up in a privileged position in America these days, and seeing the president and going, ‘Oh, he can get away with acting however he wants to, and he looks a lot like me.’”Besides, she acknowledged, she was at least partly to blame. Back in 2016, in an attempt to expose the then-14-year-old to both sides, she’d taken him to a Bernie Sanders rally in Bloomington and then to the Trump rally in Evansville. It was his choice from there.Karen had no problem with her son cutting school to stand in line for the rally with a few of his friends, on one condition: She wanted to go with him. She wanted to hear what the president had to say to her teenage son. Which put her in a predicament. Under no circumstance was she willing to be mistaken as a Trump supporter, a hard thing to accomplish while standing in line for a Trump rally, as she discovered back in 2016 when she was heckled multiple times for not engaging in various chants. That was the other problem. Karen could be vocal in her opposition, especially when people were being rude or ugly. She’d only made it 20 minutes into Trump’s speech last time before her son had to pull her out of there. “You’re freaking out, Mom. Let’s go,” he told her, after she became agitated to the point of disturbing those around her by not-so-quietly muttering under her breath.The homemade handmaid’s costume, then, was the perfect solution for both problems. Not only did it allow her to very clearly distinguish herself from the Trump supporters, but the vow of silence—meant to replicate the subjugation of women in Trump’s patriarchy—gave her an excuse to keep her mouth shut.As I weaved in and out of the crowd, I noted a handful of reporters lurking across the street with their cameras or notepads, darting into the line to do a quick interview or shoot some b-roll. But the Right Side Broadcasting Network crew—a five-person outfit consisting of a cameraman, three young, red-clad female reporters, and a bearded guy in a seersucker suit—were right in the middle of it and had been the entire afternoon. The network rose to prominence in the summer of 2015 by live-streaming wall-to-wall coverage of Trump’s primary rallies, and in late October 2016, less than a month before the general election, the Trump campaign teamed up with RSBN to produce pre- and post-debate analysis shows that were then streamed on Trump’s Facebook page. The partnership prompted a New York Magazine headline to ask the following day: “Did Trump TV Premiere Last Night?”But then Donald Trump won. There was no longer a need for Trump TV, not with Fox News handling those duties. The original content RSBN produced flopped—hiring a white nationalist to host the flagship show wasn’t a great idea—and a staff of 14 had dwindled to four. But they were still at it, still covering rallies like the state media they aspired to be. And while their pregame coverage—six hours of live, unedited interviews with Trump supporters—was rough and amateurish, striking in its lack of depth or neutrality, watching it offers perhaps the truest portrait of who those people standing in line really were. And so I offer a sample:“We have so much in common with each person standing here,” said Randall, a dog breeder from southern Minnesota, pointing at his fellow “Front Row Joes,” a group of strangers who had met—and in some cases come together—over their love of attending Donald Trump rallies. Randall had been in line since the night before, and with his American flag cowboy hat and full-sized MAGA flag, he was the group’s de facto head cheerleader. His voice was hoarse as he spoke to the RSBN reporter. Informing her that his dog, Donald Trump, had knocked up one of his other dogs, Miss America, and that he was selling the puppies. He then explained why he was attending his 38th rally.“When President Trump comes out onto that stage, he inspires us,” Randall said, his voice cracking with emotion. “And hopefully we inspire him back, to keep working, keep fighting for us, because the man is tough, and he’s doing it, but he needs us to inspire him back. It’s a two-way street.” Randall pointed again at his fellow Front Row Joes. “It’s beautiful.”Casey, an unemployed laborer from southern Illinois, about two-and-a-half hours away, was attending his first ever Trump rally, but that hadn’t stopped the MAGA-hat-wearing newbie from joining Randall in waving the flag and leading cheers. “I’ve done it many times in my dreams,” he joked to the reporter, who followed up by asking what specifically had him so fired up.“Well, I’ll tell you what’s firing me up is the fact that you can understand this President. He’s not shooting the bs,” Casey declared, in a loud, booming voice. “That’s it, that’s the bottom line.”Ted, a farmer and mechanic from about two hours west of Evansville, had been in line since 11 a.m. He was also attending his first Trump rally, and while he was certainly a supporter of the president, it was his wife who was crossing something off her bucket list. He was a little hot, a little sticky in his blue jeans and plaid shirt, but otherwise enjoying the atmosphere.“Our president has a lot of really fantastic qualities,” stated the reporter. “Do you have a favorite?”Ted paused for a second, contemplating the question. “Well, I hope he’s for the farmers,” he said, a little carefully, adding that he wants more money for his grain. “We want to eat cheap in America,” he explained, “so you got to have support for the farmers. He’s looking out for us—I hope.” When asked what drew him to the president, Ted echoed the sentiments of Casey: “He shoots straight from the hip, you know. He’s not bs-ing around about it. Some people don’t like it, but you don’t play the fence. You’re either on one side or the other.”Lorenz, an Indiana native, wasn’t as interested in policy. Sporting an oversized black Q-Anon shirt, he shifted nervously from one foot to the other, thumbs tucked into his balled fists, as the male RSBN reporter asked what he was most interested in hearing the president talk about. Lorenz gave a quick, uncomfortable glance at the camera and shifted his weight. “Basically,” he said, his eyes darting again to the camera, “let’s stop the Deep State from doing what they’re doing through the lamestream media.”There were plenty of women in attendance too—a lot of sweet Southern ladies who loved the president unconditionally and who were thrilled at the opportunity to be in his presence. “I feel like I’m going to the beach,” said one shockingly pale woman. “I’m just so excited to see him.”One of the more unabashed and vocal female supporters was Carol from nearby Santa Claus, Indiana (it’s a real place: home of Holiday World and Jay Cutler). She was sitting in a folding chair up against the side of a building, a Diet Pepsi in the cup holder, when she was approached for an interview.Carol was tired and hot, she admitted, and regretted wearing black. She wanted to wear her red Trump shirt, but her and her husband George had been in court earlier that morning (“We own rental property, and it’s been a bit of a problem,” she confided on camera, before George cut her off). Her grandson went to University of Evansville, and he had a huge Trump banner hanging in his dorm room that everyone kept telling him to take down.“Wow, wow. Cool, cool,” the RSBN reporter said, jumping in. “So tell me, is this your first President Trump rally?”Carol nodded, emphatically. “This is my first time, and I’m having a ball. I just love it!” She laughed, a crackling smoker laugh, and grabbed the reporter by the wrist pulling the mic closer toward her mouth. “Even though I’m 76 years old, had open-heart surgery, got steel in my hip, I’m here to support Trump!” She held out a Trump hat that had been sitting on her lap and pointed at the name on the front like a recent NBA draft pick, allowing the reporter to wrestle back control of the mic.“And what are you hoping to hear him speak on?”“Oh, I don’t care,” Carol answered, without hesitation. “He’s good. He’s done more in two years than our past president could do in eight years.” She looked at the camera and beamed. “I’m drinking to that!”“Yes! Definitely!” the reporter exclaimed. “And what’s your favorite quality about President Trump?”“He’s honest,” Carol answered, again without hesitation. “He tells the truth. He’s not a politician. He’s not all about money—I need this and that. He’s more about the American people, and I really and truly think if we give Trump a chance,” her hand was clenched into a fist, and her voice was rising, “he WILL make America great again.”“Yes!”“I have no education,” Carol declared. “But we’re 100 percent for Mr. Trump!”When I saw the crowd spilling out onto the patio of Kevin’s Backyard Grill, right across from the arena—not to mention the “$4 Domestic Drafts” scrawled on the chalkboard propped up on the sidewalk—I knew where I could kill some time. Narrow and dark, even with full sun outside, the place featured a long wooden bar to one side, a stage for rock bands to the other, and in between was filled with Trump supporters conversing, laughing, guzzling 32-ounce domestic drafts and chowing down on baskets of loaded tots and boats of buffalo chicken dip. I slid onto a stool at the bar, ordering up some tater tots and a Coors Light from the sweating, smiling bartender, who was quick on the draw. I took a big gulp, then another, and did a half-swivel, surveying the scene.This all felt very familiar. The place was overflowing with Trump apparel and related paraphernalia, all of it in the home team’s colors of red, white, and blue. Even the servers and bartenders were dressed in matching dark-blue Trump/Pence 2020 T-shirts, although I wasn’t sure if they were true supporters or just looking for bigger tips. A group of college-age girls in American flag bandanas and jean shorts flirted with a couple of Trump bros in the corner. Next to me, an older gentleman in a “Don’t Tread on Me” hat argued with his Dale-Jr.-shirt-wearing buddy about those “SOB NFL players” who kneel during the national anthem.It was exactly like being at a bar in downtown Indy before a Colts or Pacers game. People were crammed against the back of my stool, shouting out orders while the bartender paced the rail, pointing and pouring, the noise level ramping up incrementally with each shot thrown back. It was a joyful, anticipatory atmosphere, and when my loaded tater tots came, I ordered another beer and settled in with a smile on my face.In that moment, dipping tots in ranch and sipping Coors, I have to admit that I felt one with the people in that bar. As long as I sat there watching Around the Horn on mute, bathing in the buzz of the place, I could forget what everyone was there for. For that hour, they ceased to be Trump supporters, and I was no longer a Trump hater. We were just a group of half-drunk, totally stuffed Americans headed to a big event. And I’d be lying if I said I didn’t share in their excitement. We were about to see the president of the United States speak in person. Did that not still mean anything? Had Trump so sullied the office that it no longer meant anything to be in its presence? I certainly didn’t feel that way. Right then I was thinking this would be something I’d tell my kids about someday.The bartender, a friendly, goateed guy in his thirties, caught the attention of the man crammed next to me. The guy was a regular and they started chatting. The bartender wasn’t supposed to be in until that afternoon, but his manager had called him in at 10. The regular laughed and nodded as a guy with bowling ball shoulders caught the bartender’s attention with a $100 bill. “Hey man, can you make change for this?”“Oh hell yeah,” the bartender said, wiping his hands on what was definitely a crisp new Trump shirt, reaching into his tip jar. “Been a good day!”When I was 12 years old, Reggie Miller pulled off one of the most miraculous comebacks in sports history. I remember exactly where I was when it happened: I’d been sitting in my parents Toyota Previa minivan, slowly strapping on my soccer shin guards, listening on the radio as the Pacers fell behind by six points with 18 seconds left to go against the New York Knicks, a playoff series that had been dubbed “Hicks versus Knicks” by the New York media.When the Knicks pushed the lead to six, I’d slid open the Previa’s door so forcefully it shook the window glass and started trudging toward the soccer field, head down and kicking grass. I didn’t get far. “Oh my God! Aaahhh!” I heard my mom scream as I turned around in a panic. My dad was hanging out the driver’s side window, waving me to come back: “He did it! He did it! He did it!”Eight points in nine seconds. That’s what Reggie Miller had done—and even 23 years later, it stands as one of the single greatest comebacks in the history of professional basketball. From that day until he retired a decade later, if there was time on the clock and #31 was on the court, the Pacers still had a chance. No subsequent failure to execute—and Miller had plenty of big misses—could ever shake that feeling.I was reminded of all this in the moments after leaving the Backyard Grill. I’d exited at the corner of Main and Sixth Street, diagonal from the entrance to the Ford Center, stepping out into the sunlight with a hand shielding my eyes. The doors to the venue were finally open, and the line was moving, glacially, as Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believing” blared from the speakers. The side streets were packed with people milling about, shopping the row of tables and tents selling unofficial merch, and the smell of hot dogs hung in the air. I made my way over toward the huge videoboard that had been set up outside the arena, where on-screen a highlight reel of the president’s shocking election-night upset played on a loop, eliciting a cheer from those in line every time the Fox News desk called Pennsylvania for Donald J. Trump.That’s when it hit me: Donald Trump was Reggie Miller. I tried to push the thought away, but the comparison was sitting there, too ripe to ignore. Like Miller, Donald Trump was from the coast, but not necessarily of the coast, and both men were mocked back home before being embraced by working-class underdogs in the Midwest. Both were loud and brash, hated by their opponents, and each came to embody the middle of the country’s resentment of all things big city and bright lights. They both also enjoyed, to great effect, using the media to lash out and provoke the very coastal establishment that had rejected them.And, most importantly, both pulled off miracles so unbelievable that it earned them a lifetime’s worth of belief in their powers.The night that the Fox News hosts announced the results of Pennsylvania, guaranteeing Trump one of the most improbable victories in the history of politics — it was the equivalent of Miller’s eight points in nine seconds in Madison Square Garden. It was confirmation that not everything was rigged against the average, mid-market Midwest American, that David’s stone could still fell the giant if there was enough momentum behind it.Journey had given way to Neil Young’s “Rockin’ in the Free World,” as I pushed through the crowd and out the other side, in search of the thousands of protesters the local paper had promised. Apparently there were two main groups gathering pre-rally, each getting hyped separately before marching toward the Ford Center and joining together as one unified protest. How perfectly symbolic, I thought, heading north of downtown in search of Memorial Baptist Church, searching for the group led by activists from the Sierra Club, Indivisible, Beyond Coal, Our Revolution, and the Tri-State LBGTQ Alliance.Maybe it was the beers or just my unfamiliarity with the city, but I couldn’t find Memorial Baptist Church for the life of me. I was nearly a mile north of downtown before doubling back toward Locust and Ninth, where the other group, led by the Vanderburgh County Democratic Party, was meeting in a grassy area by a parking lot. There were maybe 75 people milling around in front of the parking lot, signs at their side, talking quietly. They were scattered and broken into mini groups of three or four, and as I made my way with ease through the crowd, I picked up bits and pieces of conversations, most of which centered around one prominent political figure: Joe Donnelly. And it wasn’t in a “we support Joe” sort of way. More like, as a kindly-looking woman with short silver hair put it: “What the hell is Donnelly doing?”You have to feel for Joe Donnelly. After replacing Richard Lugar, a six-term senator and lodestar of moderate Republicanism, Donnelly spent his first four years in office crafting an image as a moderate, bipartisan compromiser, just like that of his predecessor. In fact, according to the Bipartisan Index, a lifetime ranking of senators conducted by none other than The Lugar Center, Joe Donnelly ranked as the second most bipartisan senator since 1993 (Lugar ranked #26, by the way). To put his bipartisanship in perspective, he voted with President Trump 62 percent of the time in 2017—more support than he gave Obama during his last year in office. Put another way, if Joe Donnelly were any more bipartisan, he’d be Todd Young.And then along came Trump, smashing the middle ground like a one-legged drunk in a China shop, leaving Donnelly to flail his arms and kick his feet like Wile E. Coyote run off a cliff. One minute he’s voting to fund the wall and roll back Dodd-Frank and ban abortions after 20 weeks; the next, he’s saving health care and going against the tax bill and putting sanctions on Russia. The end result is that for the past two years, Donnelly has done nothing but piss people off. Those on the right can’t understand why he would ever vote against the president, while those on the left don’t get why he ever wouldn’t. Both sides hold the same thing against him.The vibe I got from the protesters was that Trump supporters were a lost cause. Now that the president was openly supporting Donnelly’s opponent Mike Braun in the midterm, there was no hope in winning their vote. What Joe needed to be doing, as the Democrat sitting atop the state ticket, was turn out the base. Not reach across the aisle for a hand that wasn’t even extended. It was an angle I agreed with, prior to coming here. But standing in that mostly open field listening to a few scattered protesters arguing among themselves, and then comparing that to the line I’d seen winding through downtown, I was starting to see things a little differently.I mean, what the hell were we going to do about it? Vote for Mike Braun?I’d stopped by the hotel to drop off my backpack and was now speed-walking down Main Street with my notebook and a pen tucked behind my ear, ready to finally enter the belly of the beast. It was still warm and humid out, but the sun was beginning to fade over the horizon, filling the sky with a burning red hue that was, depending on your perspective, either beautiful or ominous.Just as I passed by Angelo’s, a quaint-looking Italian bistro with a “Make Angelo’s Great Again” sidewalk sign, two shirtless boys, maybe 10, 11 years old, came riding up the sidewalk on their bikes. The front one, the bigger of the two, his dirty blonde hair shaped into the beginnings of a mullet and blowing behind him, fixed me with a menacing squinty-eyed tough-guy look.“Make America great again!” he spat, breezing past me on the shared sidewalk.His friend, shorter, scrawny, buzz-headed, was trailing 10 yards behind and breathing heavily. “MAGA!” he huffed, standing up to pick up the pace as he passed.I did a double take, not entirely sure what the hell just happened. It sorta felt like I’d been threatened. Like the neighborhood bully and his sidekick had just warned me to watch my back in these parts. I laughed, a little uneasily. Were the kids all right?Standing in line in front of the Ford Center, watching Lara Trump, wife of Eric, inform us from the videoboard that “President Trump supports the First Amendment as much as he does the Second” but that “some people have taken advantage of that,” word began to ripple through the crowd that the cops were shutting the doors. Nobody else was getting in. I looked around, and for the first time all day, people weren’t smiling.A guy in his early thirties wearing a blue polo shirt wandered over to where I was standing in line, a couple hundred yards from the now-closed entrance. “Hey did you guys have tickets?!” he asked, a bit wild-eyed, to nobody in particular. When it was confirmed that everyone in the general vicinity did, he became agitated. “Me too!” he exclaimed, throwing his arms out wide. “What was the freakin’ point?!” The man had left work early and driven three hours from St. Louis to be there, he told us, speeding the whole way. Others voiced similar stories, joining what was becoming a chorus of complaint.“How the fuck are they printing more tickets than they have seats?”“If this were Luke Bryan at 80 bucks a pop, you can bet they’d find some room!”“Let’s charge the gates!” (said to a big laugh)Elton John’s “Candle in the Wind” began playing over the PA system, and Lara Trump was replaced by another highlight reel of Trump’s election-night miracle. A deeply tanned, heavily-muscled man with a lumberjack beard who’d been listening to the growing discord tried to explain the issue away. He heard some people had made copies of the tickets and then passed them out to friends. That’s why there were thousands now left standing outside. It wasn’t Trump’s fault.I desperately wanted to argue, to say of course the Trump campaign had given out more free tickets than they had room for. Why wouldn’t they? They had no clue how many people would actually show up. It’s one thing to download a free ticket, quite another to actually show up. But also: The Trump campaign wanted an overflow crowd. That’s why they’d set up the videoboard on top of the trailer. They wanted thousands of people left outside watching on the Jumbotron, so that Trump could then reference the thousands of people outside watching on the Jumbotron. It wasn’t nefarious. It was just Trump, the businessman and marketer, doing what he does best. And still they made excuses.“Man,” said blue polo shirt, fully accepting Lumberjack’s explanation. “That’s bullshit.” Lumberjack nodded, and they both turned to look up at the Jumbotron.Off in the distance came the faint echo of an angry chant, and for the briefest of seconds, I thought it was Trump supporters rising up in protest, demanding to be let in. “Let us in! Let us in!” I swear that’s what I heard, as I began moving in that direction. But as I got closer and the scene unfolded, I realized I’d been mistaken.It was the protesters. Hundreds of them. I’d written them off after the underwhelming showing at the Democratic party pre-rally, but apparently the group led by the activists had turned out. They were piled four and five deep the length of a city block down Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., almost all of them with signs. It was heartening to see, and I smiled as I took in the volume and variety of signage. There were short signs (“TRE45ON”) and long signs (“SuperCallousFragileRacistSexistNaziPOTUS”). There were sincere signs (“God Bless Our Free Press”) and familiar signs (“Black Lives Matter”). There were signs that suggested a little oversight (“Someone Take Away His Phone!”) and others that demanded coarser action (“Eat My Ass, Trump!”). There was even a sign about all the signs (“Not Usually a Sign Guy, But Geez.”)On the other side of the street, the side I was on, a growing crowd of Trump supporters had begun to gather. The protesters were chanting angrily and throwing expletive-laced invectives across the street, while the Trump supporters mostly just looked on in bemusement and laughed. To them, the whole thing was one big LOL. Here were hundreds of truly pissed-off liberals, forehead veins throbbing, calling them awful names from just 50 yards away, and the Trump supporters were laughing like they’d all just eaten a pot cookie and gone to the state fair.In the middle of it all, forming a human barricade, were police officers from varying patrols: beat cops, bike cops, even mounted police, helmeted officers sitting high on their horses, hands on their batons. One serious-looking sniper, muscles bursting out of his flak jacket, rifle at the ready—it was filled with bean-bag bullets, I’m pretty sure—stood on the curb in front of the Trump supporters, his sunglass-covered eyes scanning the opposite side of the street.Right in front of him, almost as if he were guarding it, protecting it from those on the left, was a splatter of horse shit.“You’re a fucking tool, bro!” One exchange toward the far end of the line caught my attention, and I moved closer to watch.On the left side was a trio of older black guys, probably in their early forties. They were on the curb and yelling at a Trump supporter, also a black guy, who was wearing a red Trump-Pence 2020 shirt and laughing. In his hand he held a small sign reading: “Blacks for Trump.”“And your boy, he’s the worst of the worst,” called out the ringleader of the protesters, sporting a white T-shirt with the message “F$#K RACIST TRUMP” handwritten on the front. A small smile jumped at the corners of his mouth, and he shot a glance at the line of officers. “I hope he leaves here and gets hit by a fucking car!”I wasn’t sure exactly who he was referring to, but those sounded like fighting words to me. The Blacks for Trump supporter, however, just laughed and shook his head. “You know what he go home to?”“What?” the ringleader fired back, mean-mugging.The man paused for a second, suddenly unsure of himself. “He, uh,” the crowd was starting to close in, people had their phones out. “He go home to a two-million-dollar mansion—” The three protesters were howling before he could get the sentence out, smacking each other in the chest, clowning. The Blacks for Trump guy raised his voice to be heard. “And I go home to a three-million-dollar mansion! Got two or three Rolls Royces!”The conversation devolved into unintelligible crosstalk at that point, and I was only able to make out the occasional insult through all the shouting:At that point, the Blacks for Trump guy’s friend showed up, and holy shit, I recognized him. I’d seen him on TV at another rally, standing right behind the president and cheering wildly while wearing a white T-shirt that read… I moved around to the side to get a better angle, and yep, it was him. Same gold chain, same sunglasses perched on top of the same permed hair. And most definitely the same T-shirt proclaiming, in bold, black letters, “Trump & Republicans Are Not Racist.”Now it all made sense.Burnout in the workplace isn’t uncommon, and it’s not pleasant, either. Data from the American Institute of Stress suggests that 80 percent of U.S. workers feel stressed out about their jobs, with 40 percent in roles that are “very” or “extremely” stressful.People in high-intensity jobs, like those in the medical profession or law enforcement, are particularly prone to burnout, but they’re by no means the only ones who suffer from it. Across the professional spectrum, burnout can be caused by any number of factors: Long hours, conflicts with management, and overall job frustration are just some of the things that can leave any worker feeling like they’re on the brink of mental, emotional, or physical collapse.The easiest cure is also the most obvious: Take some time off. Going on a trip or setting aside a few days at home to refresh can temporarily reset your stress clock. But not everyone has the vacation days or financial means to make an escape, so you may need an alternative way to fight off the job scaries. Here are some ways to get yourself back on track when you can’t get away.The first step toward treating burnout is recognizing it for what it is. “There are three big signs of burnout,” says psychologist Ellen Hendriksen, author of How to Be Yourself: Quiet Your Inner Critic and Rise Above Social Anxiety. The first, emotional exhaustion, “is exactly what it sounds like: a sense of being drained and unmotivated and tired, both physically and psychologically. It gives you the sense of moving through mud.”Another symptom is something called depersonalization, or “a substitution of characteristics for an actual person,” Hendriksen says — for example, “nurses might start to refer to a patient as ‘the heart attack in Room Eight,’ or a psychologist might refer to a client as ‘that OCD guy.’” You stop seeing the people you work with as people and instead start to see them as burdens, which builds up a mounting sense of resentment.The last big sign of burnout, Hendriksen says, is losing the ability to focus. “[It’s] basically taking more time and energy to accomplish less,” she says. “If you’re noticing, ‘I’m working hard and really long hours but accomplishing a lot less than I used to,’ that’s a red flag.”Burnout, in many ways, feels similar to depression. But while the two share many traits, burnout tends to be more situational than depression’s all-encompassing state of gray. “If people feel like an anvil has landed on them at work but perk up at their soccer league or cooking class, then it is likely not depression,” Hendriksen says. “Depression colors every area of life, but burnout can be more job-specific. It bleeds over, but there is some contrast.”It sounds like an old cliché, but sleep, exercise, and proper nutrition can do wonders for your mood and stress levels.Unfortunately, burnout can cause you to swap out good habits for bad ones, which creates a vicious cycle. “Take an inventory of how much you might be drinking, or how much sleep you’re getting, or how much screen time you’re consuming, to try to make over any bad habits that have crept in because you’re feeling sluggish or unmotivated,” Hendriksen says. “It’s really easy to let job burnout and resentment turn into a ‘what the hell’ attitude when it comes to our personal habits.” It can be tempting to mitigate unhappiness at work with lots of boozy happy hours and midday candy breaks, but the physical benefits of eating and sleeping well outweigh the temporary burst you’ll get from short-term fixes.You should also try to cut down on screen time once you clock out, especially if you have a job that already requires a lot of screen time. The blue light emanating from your phone and computer can mess with your circadian rhythms, making it harder for you to fall asleep and leaving you feeling slightly jet-lagged. Screens can also cause eye strain, leading to headaches and increased feelings of fatigue. Consider swapping out your Netflix binges for time with friends, long walks, or other activities that keep you away from electronics for at least a few hours.Robert Taibbi, a licensed clinical social worker and the author of several books on mental health, says it’s important to suss out how your specific workplace habits might be affecting your happiness. “It’s about looking at your personality,” Taibbi says. “What does your job require? How much into control are you? Do you have a hard time delegating and getting help on things? Do you get obsessed because you tend to be perfectionistic?” If you tend to procrastinate, for instance, endlessly battling last-minute deadlines might be the root of your burnout. If you feel like you’ve taken on too much but don’t want to assign tasks to others, maybe that’s what’s causing your issues.Alter these habits accordingly, either on your own or with the help of a manager. For instance, at a former blogging job, I started to have trouble finishing posts before the end of the day. Though I was super productive in the morning, I’d lose focus after lunch and struggle to make up for lost time through the afternoon. My boss and I restructured my schedule so I’d log on from home a little earlier in the morning, file a couple posts, and then come in. That schedule allowed me to take advantage of my most productive hours and also broke up my day, so that by the time I came into the office, I wasn’t restless from feeling like I’d been sitting at my desk for too long.Hendriksen says it’s helpful to envision your perfect work environment, then take small, realistic steps to bring your reality closer to what you’re picturing. “People can fundamentally love their job and know they’re in the right field, but they might be overworked,” she says. “Perhaps you can try to justify an assistant. If you’re dealing with a long commute, perhaps you can work from home a few days a week. Work strategically to align your ideal workplace environment and duties with the actual one.”If work has started to drain your energy, Hendriksen says it’s important to identify activities that replenish it and focus on those activities in your off-hours. Socializing with friends is generally considered a good antidote to the drudgery of a working day, but if that doesn’t lift you up, perhaps you’d prefer to spend your off-hours reading a good book, or cooking, or taking a Spanish class.Just make sure it’s something you want to do and not something you think you should do. “It’s important to make sure it’s something you honestly, really believe would be fun,” Hendriksen says. “We so often do things that are good for us, but then it becomes another chore, even if ostensibly it would be fun.”And remember to separate you from your work life. Taibbi says people who suffer from burnout tend to tie their identities more strongly to their jobs. “Ideally, you want to be diversified. You want to have multiple baskets to pull from,” Taibbi says. “If all your self-esteem and identity go into one job, your risk of burnout goes up, because you’re anxious the basket is going to get turned over.”Sometimes, no matter how hard you try to make the best of job burnout, you really just need time off.“If you’re at the point where you are sacrificing your health for work, that is a sign. That never gets better on its own,” Hendriksen says. “That’s your body telling you that this is not a good match.” If you can’t get out of bed, for instance, or your blood pressure is spiking, or you’re suffering from regular stress headaches or not eating, it’s important to step away. Talk to your supervisor about going on leave or borrowing vacation days from next year, or promise to make up the time you’ll be out. Just make it clear how much you need this break, and then do what you can to get it.Taibbi suggests that even taking one day off might help get you back on track. “That’s when people say, ‘I’m going to take a mental health day,’” he said. “It’s when [your] productivity starts to fall apart because you just showed up at work and can’t plow through it.” You and your employer will both be better off if you can get back the energy you need to actually do your job.For five decades, conservatives have claimed the moral high ground in judicial matters, claiming that they are simply interpreting the Constitution as it was written by our Founding Fathers — what they call an originalist approach. But conservative justices’ decisions are no less shaped by their worldview than progressives’.In 2008, for instance, for the first time in U.S. history, the five conservative justices on the Roberts court declared a local gun control ordinance to be unconstitutional — a violation of the Second Amendment. In 2010, these same justices found that corporations have the right to spend unlimited amounts of money in election campaigns. In 2013, they invalidated a federal civil rights law in the area of race — a key provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 — for the first time since the 19th century.By any measure, all these cases were based on the ideology and values of the conservative Republican justices, not the text or the original meaning of the Constitution. It is laughable to say that the framers of the First Amendment intended that corporations should be able to spend unrestricted sums from their campaign treasuries to get candidates elected or defeated. Those who wrote the First Amendment did not envision campaign spending as it exists today, let alone modern corporations. Additionally, each decision-overruled precedent invalidated a law that was enacted with overwhelming support, broadly decided a matter when a narrow ruling was possible, and did so to advance conservative political values.It’s time for progressives to fight back by offering an alternative vision of constitutional interpretation and constitutional law based on fulfilling the Constitution’s promise of liberty and justice for all. Progressives need to expose how conservatives are using the Constitution to advance their own agenda, which favors business over consumers and employees and government power over individual rights.The first step must be to refute the conservatives’ legal notion of “originalism,” whereby all constitutional issues, including such controversial questions as the death penalty or affirmative action, can be resolved based solely on the original text of the Constitution and its meaning at the time it was written. Conservatives maintain that this allows justices to decide cases without imposing their own values. That is nonsense. There is no such thing as “value-neutral judging.” It is a myth that conservatives have advanced for decades and continue to espouse for their own purposes.But it is not enough to reveal the conservatives’ false promise of judicial neutrality. Progressives must offer their own vision for what the Constitution should be understood to mean. The document should be interpreted to fulfill its central values. Therefore, it is essential to begin by identifying the core underlying values that the Constitution is meant to achieve. The place to start is at the very beginning, with the Preamble, which articulates the purposes for the document. The Preamble states: “We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.”Unfortunately, the Preamble has been largely ignored in Supreme Court decisions and scholarly writings. It has been treated as a mere rhetorical flourish to the Constitution. But, on the contrary, it is much more: It provides a lens through which the Constitution can be examined, articulating the basic values of the document that follows.I, of course, am not making an argument that I know the intent of the framers of the Constitution in these areas. Their intent cannot be known and should not limit contemporary constitutional law. The Constitution must be adapted to the problems of each generation; we are not living in the world of 1787 and should not pretend that the choices for that time can guide ours today. Chief Justice John Marshall expressed this realization almost 200 years ago when he said that “we must never forget that it is a Constitution we are expounding,” a Constitution “meant to be adapted and endure for ages to come.”Given Donald Trump’s election, it is not likely that my vision will be adopted in the immediate future. But that’s not the point. Conservatives, in their think tanks and Federalist Society cliques, have spent years articulating and elaborating a conservative vision of constitutional law and the role of the Supreme Court. They did this even during years when conservatives were out of power. Liberals may have thought it futile to create a different and progressive vision with conservative justices in the majority on the Supreme Court for the past 45 years. Perhaps, too, progressives have been wedded for too long to the Warren court’s vision and not thought enough beyond it. The Warren court ended almost a half-century ago, in 1969, and it made huge strides in ending segregation and expanding the rights of criminal defendants. But now is the time to provide and defend and fight for an alternative, grander, and more inclusive interpretation of the Constitution.The Preamble to the Constitution clearly states the values that the document is meant to achieve: ensuring democratic governance, providing effective government, establishing justice, and securing liberty. Added to these values should be furthering equality, not something that was mentioned in the Preamble to a Constitution which protected the institution of slavery.There is much that progressives can fight for to fulfill each of these values. We need to create an election system that is far more democratic, including ending partisan gerrymandering, lessening the likelihood that the Electoral College will choose presidents who lose the popular vote, and combating disenfranchisement of minority voters.Establishing justice requires finally eliminating the death penalty, which is inflicted in an arbitrary and racially discriminatory manner. There must be a better system of ensuring that those who are accused of crimes have competent counsel.Securing liberty requires that there must greater constitutional protection of privacy. This includes more safeguards against government intrusions, better protection against information gathering by the government, and continued protection of basic aspects of autonomy, including reproductive autonomy.Looking at the Constitution in a progressive way would produce a very different approach, one that would do much more to provide liberty and justice for all. In most areas, it would not take more than the shift of a single justice to create decisions pointing constitutional law in a fairer direction that does much more to realize the promise of the Preamble and the Constitution. Maybe the unexpected will happen and there will be a progressive majority on the Supreme Court sooner than I or anyone expects. If not, some changes can be accomplished through legislative action at the federal or state levels; much can be done under state constitutional law when the Supreme Court and federal courts do not act.It is so tempting to look at the composition of the Supreme Court as a historic inevitability. But in reality, it is a product of coincidences between the timing of vacancies and who is in the White House. If Hubert Humphrey rather than Richard Nixon won in 1968—and it was a very close election—then a Democratic president would have picked four new justices between 1969 and 1971, and that would have continued a liberal majority on the court for decades more. If Al Gore or John Kerry had been president in 2005, when William Rehnquist and Sandra Day O’Connor left the Supreme Court, there would be five justices appointed by Democratic presidents on the court today, notwithstanding the election of Donald Trump, the appointment of Neil Gorsuch, and the resignation of Anthony Kennedy. If Hillary Clinton had been elected president — and she did win the popular vote by 3 million votes — and had replaced Antonin Scalia, the next years and perhaps decades of constitutional law would be vastly different.So I think it is important to step away from the current composition of the Supreme Court and focus instead on what should be the meaning of the Constitution itself. How should progressives interpret this majestic but flawed document? The Constitution, and how it is interpreted, affects all of us, often in the most intimate and important aspects of our lives. It should be interpreted to create a nation where there truly is liberty and justice for all.The Center for American Politics and Design built an archive of every 2018 campaign logo, and its banality is disorienting. In a moment of such division and upheaval, how can the visual landscape remain so uniform?You might notice that there are a few differences in the details. Democrats use slightly more purple, with a near monopoly from the women in the party. Democrats use a bit more blue, Republicans use a bit more red. Etc.When you take a step back, the difference is a matter of degree. Some individual logos may obviously belong to one party or the other — especially if they use purple or green — but collectively, it’s a wash. After all, both sides are equally into serifs, and lord knows how much typography matters.You might wonder if this relates to voter apathy. I do. Many people opt out of the political process because they don’t see a difference between the two major parties. Based on their visual identities, that’s an understandable reaction.By contrast, we’re visually tuned into many other parts of life. We’re surrounded by logos and other symbols that help us define our preferences every time we shop. Some logos stand for who we are and who we want to be, even if the product itself is only a pair of shoes or a phone.Many civic institutions also use visual patterns to great effect. New Mexico has exquisite license plates, for example. The national Great Seal is iconic, even if it’s not quite in step with the latest design trends. (Though you never know, flat design comes in cycles.)It’s also ubiquitous in political movements around the world — old communist propaganda is still recognizable generations later, and the color yellow recently took center stage in Catalonia. A few recent American presidential campaigns have leaned on design as well. Obama’s visual language captured his message and encouraged millions of young to people care about politics for the first time (McCain’s didn’t even try).Clinton’s campaign worked with a highly esteemed designer to develop a winsome, witty, and vaguely corporate logo. Trump used Times New Roman and ALL CAPS to convey his point of view and attitude.Apparently you don’t need access to expensive professionals or publicity consultants to build a compelling visual language. All of this makes it even more striking that, as a whole, our political parties are not visually distinct.Is it good or bad that the parties look so alike? I can’t say. People look for visual clues to make sense of the world, and these logos don’t offer much help. On the other hand, politicians aren’t luxury phones, and strong imagery can be used to fuel division. The commonalities also speak to a set of shared values, which are every bit as real as the points of divergence.Take some time to explore the archive. It’s a fascinating resource, and filled with riddles about the moment you live in. What do you notice?The fact that half of all Americans with health insurance get it through their jobs is a true oddity of the U.S. health care system. No other country operates in such a way. Yet surveys show that most people on employer-sponsored health insurance (ESHI) seem to be happy with it. So why shouldn’t we follow the old maxim “If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it?”The Affordable Care Act took that approach. Rather than trying to replace ESHI, the ACA made having health insurance mandatory for employers with 50 or more workers. Yet serious health economists tell us that ESHI is “broke” after all. In fact, they say it is so profoundly dysfunctional that it deserves to be called the “original sin” of the U.S. health care system.ESHI’s biggest problems come down to three things: job lock, which reduces labor mobility of beneficiaries; the fundamental inequity in how benefits disproportionately go to the highest-paid workers; and the increased fragmentation of health care finance that comes from a system administered by thousands of separate employers.This term describes the tendency of employer-sponsored health insurance to discourage people from changing jobs, starting their own businesses, or cutting their hours (usually either to care for family members or move toward retirement). Job lock undermines labor market mobility, makes it harder to match workers to the most suitable jobs, and cuts labor productivity.Almost everyone seems to know at least one friend or relative who has taken a job that wasn’t great for them—or not left such a job—simply because it was the only way for them to get health coverage. A recent New York Times op-ed by former reporter Kurt Eichenwald dives into this experience. Eichenwald has a severe form of epilepsy, and the medication alone costs $50,000 a year. He vividly details 40 years of struggles to secure and keep health insurance. Small employers refused to hire him because he would send the company premium through the roof; he had frightening gaps in coverage and had to appeal to his parents to cover costly emergency room visits; and he recounts the humiliation of having to beg for an entry-level job far below his qualifications just to maintain coverage.Eichenwald’s situation is by no means rare. In the survey cited above, 46 percent of respondents listed health benefits as an important factor in deciding to work for their current employer. That includes 9 percent who reported health coverage was the decisive factor in taking the job. An even greater proportion, 56 percent, said that health insurance affected their decision to stay in their current job.There is much academic literature on the extent of job lock that is summarized well in a 2015 report by Dean Baker and published by the AARP Public Policy Institute. Baker noted that there is wide agreement among investigators that people with ESHI are less likely to change jobs, become self-employed, retire early, or reduce hours of work. Although there are many other factors besides health insurance that influence labor mobility, Baker concluded that even when those complicating factors are accounted for, job lock is a reality.A second criticism of employer-sponsored health insurance is its inequity. Workers with high-paying jobs get most of the benefits while those with lower pay or part-time status get little help.Differences in tax rates are part of the reason. According to data from the Kaiser Family Foundation, a typical ESHI policy with family coverage has a total cost of just under $20,000, of which employers pay about $14,000. Suppose you are a head of household earning $60,000 a year, sufficient to put you in the 25 percent federal tax bracket. Having your employer pay $14,000 of your insurance premium rather than getting that much extra in cash and paying the premium yourself would save you $3,500 in taxes. But if you are a top executive in the 40 percent tax bracket, the tax deductibility of the insurance is worth $5,600.However, according to the Tax Policy Center, some 44 percent of Americans pay no income tax at all—in most cases not because they enjoy massive loopholes but because their income is too low; 60 percent of the non-payers work. Even if they get ESHI, it gives them no tax benefit at all. They would be no worse off if health benefits were not deductible and employers added the cost of their insurance to their cash pay instead.There’s a second factor that adds to the inequity: Low-wage workers, by and large, are not even offered the option of health benefits. Data from the Social Security Administration show that only about one-third of workers in the lowest fifth of the wage distribution are offered health benefits and that less than 20 percent of them accept those offers. In contrast, more than 80 percent of those in the top fifth of the wage distribution are offered health benefits and accept them.Robert Kaestner and Darren Lubotsky, economists at the University of Illinois at Chicago, provide an estimate of the overall inequality of ESHI based on the combined effects of differences in tax rates and differences in offer and acceptance rates. The following chart from their study shows that workers in the bottom fifth of the family income distribution get annual benefits of less than $500 from ESHI while those in the top fifth get benefits averaging $4,500. What’s more, the value of health benefits to well-paid workers grew substantially over the period shown in the chart while the value for the lowest-paid workers decreased slightly.A third problem employer-sponsored health insurance contributes to is fragmentation of health care finance. A policy brief from Brandeis University put it this way:Fragmentation is a problem not only for small employers, who have little bargaining power in purchasing group policies from insurers, but also for larger employers. Many larger employers try to save on health-benefit costs by self-insuring. According to Collective Health, a company that advises employers on their ESHI programs, 79 percent of companies with 200 or more employees were self-insured in 2017, up from 60 percent in 1999.The problem is, companies that self-insure don’t always do a good job of it. Ali Diab, CEO and founder of Collective Health noted this in a post on the company’s blog:Recently, three corporate giants—Amazon, JPMorgan Chase, and Berkshire Hathaway—joined forces to form a combined health care enterprise to manage benefits for their hundreds of thousands of employees. The stock prices of traditional insurers fell when news of the consortium was announced, but many analysts are skeptical of how well it will work. Leemore Dafny, a professor at Harvard Business School, told reporters from the New York Times, “Just because you know an industry is underperforming and you have a lot of money doesn’t mean you have a successful strategy.” Dafny said she was excited to see such serious players take on the problems of ESHI but noted there were numerous examples of outsiders trying, and failing, to succeed in the health care system.When it comes down to hard bargaining, health care providers—including big insurers, hospitals, and drug companies—are less fragmented than employers. Furthermore, health care is what they know best. For employers whose main expertise lies in a number of other areas, health care is only a sideline. Given the structure of the system, providers will always come out ahead, driving up costs for workers and their families, which are the ultimate health care consumers.If employer-sponsored health insurance were a carefully crafted system established with some clear purpose in mind, we might think twice before getting rid of it, but it is not. Instead, people who have tried to trace its origins, like Indiana University’s Aaron Carroll, portray ESHI as an accident of history. Job-linked health benefits first became widespread during World War II when U.S. firms faced both a labor shortage and a wage freeze. Desperate to attract employees, the story goes, they started giving out benefits like health insurance instead of cash raises. The IRS boosted the popularity of ESHI by declaring such benefits to be nontaxable. When President Harry Truman’s attempts to establish a national health care system failed after the war, ESHI became a central element of a complex health care system whose many disparate parts have never fit together well.It really is good news, in a way, that ESHI is already fading away. The latest Employer Benefits Survey from the Kaiser Family Foundation shows that the percentage of employers offering health benefits declined from 68 percent in 2000 to 53 percent in 2017. Meanwhile, employee contributions and deductibles have been steadily increasing.We urgently need something better. It is time to stop putting up with the job lock, the inequities, and the fragmentation that characterize ESHI. Many of the leading ideas for health care reform, including universal catastrophic coverage (my preferred solution) and Bernie Sanders’ Medicare for All (popular among progressives), would replace ESHI altogether. Other reforms, such as the Medicare Extra plan from the Center for American Progress would allow both employers and employees to opt out of ESHI in favor of a fully portable type of insurance. The time to begin the transition is now.There are many ways to live a healthy life. The Health Diaries is a weekly series about the habits that keep notable people living well.David Sinclair is one of the world’s renowned longevity researchers. He believes that one day — sooner rather than later — scientists will be able to treat and even reverse aging. He’s spent the bulk of his career researching the pathways that control aging in the body. Sinclair, a geneticist and professor at Harvard Medical School, has helped identify the role of molecules that are potentially important for longevity, including resveratrol — found in small concentrations in the skin of grapes — and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD), a compound found naturally in the body that declines as we age but may be replenished through supplements.Sinclair is also a co-founder of Life Biosciences, a biopharmaceutical company that is investigating and commercializing treatments for aging. It’s the largest company addressing the eight pathways of what Life Biosciences refers to as age-related decline (ARD). Sinclair and his colleagues want to treat aging as a systemic breakdown of the body, rather than treating symptoms or specific conditions. Sinclair, who lives in Boston with his wife and three children, spoke to Medium about how he incorporates what he’s learned about longevity in the lab into his everyday life.I wake up every morning at 7 a.m., and I definitely need an alarm clock. I’m not morning person.I start the day with homemade yogurt. It’s whole milk with some special bacteria that we put in the oven. It takes 24 hours for it to culture, and it’s better than anything I know that you can buy. I sweeten it up with some stevia and throw some blueberries in there. I haven’t been sick since I started doing that a year ago.I don’t like vegetables, but I am slowly learning to like them more. I try to eat as many as I can for my health. Green or colored vegetables are my preference, not the starchy ones. In part because of their lower caloric level, but also because of their polyphenols—small molecules that have been shown to activate the body against diseases. I also try to avoid mammals. That’s mostly for health reasons.I often miss lunch because I am busy, but if I do eat lunch, I have a small soup or six pieces of sushi. That’s it. I am drinking tea throughout the day to stay hydrated.A typical dinner is a standard family meal, but I stick to small portions, and I don’t go back for seconds. My wife is a great cook. This is my big downfall. We eat as healthy as we can, but we have three kids. Usually it’s something unexpected and delicious.When I turned 40, about 10 years ago, I said no more dessert. Will I taste a little bit? Sure. But I don’t order it at restaurants.I wasn’t the healthiest kid, and I was overweight. I grew up in a household in the 1970s where there were always snacks around, like chips and peanuts. As soon as I got to college and discovered girls, I lost 15 pounds. I’ve kept off the weight since then, and I’ve been very conscious about what I eat, to the point that I drive people crazy.I practice what I discover. I take resveratrol, which we discovered had health properties 15 years ago, and an NAD supplement each day.I think low-calorie diets and fasting are potentially beneficial. It’s been known since 1916 that cutting back calories is beneficial in every organism it’s been tested on — from yeast to worms to mice to monkeys. I think it would be a surprise if we are an exception to that rule. I tried calorie restriction and couldn’t do it. It’s really hard to be hungry all the time. If I’m not hungry and I’m busy, I am quite happy to skip a meal. It’s informal intermittent fasting. I feel strongly that this is one of the strongest areas of longevity research. But I should caution that no one has done a full-scale, long-term clinical trial on this for longevity.It’s pretty hard for me to exercise regularly. I have gym at home, and my son—he’s 11—and I will try to go a couple times a week. I try to get my heart rate up on a treadmill once a week and lift some weights. I do pushups every morning before I go to work. I just feel better having done a little exercise at the beginning of the day, but that’s all I have time for, unfortunately.There’s no downtime in my life right now. It’s all occupied, and there’s no wasted time. If I have any spare time, I spend it with my children. I am in favor of work-life balance, and if someone could teach me how to be a better dad, please let me know. It’s getting harder every year.There’s so much that gets me excited every day. I have a front-row seat on hundreds of labs around the world. I’m very lucky in that way. I am helping bring together the world’s leading scientists in the field of aging. Not just to collaborate on science, but to collaborate on pharmaceutical development and make medicines that help the world. It’s been an incredible journey so far.At Life Biosciences, we are starting new companies every couple months to tackle new aspects of aging. There are eight so far, and we are not slowing down. There’s really new science that I can’t talk about yet, but it gives me a lot of confidence that we are going to see some really cool changes in medicine in our lifetime — if not much sooner than we think.I have an embarrassing confession to make: I kind of like Seth Abramson.Actually, no, not kind of. Fuck it. I like him.I will no longer cower in shame. The college professor, former public defender (and Harvard Law ’01 alum), occasional HuffPost blogger, popularizer of a newish cultural philosophy known as “metamodernism,” published experimental poet, and self-described “horizontal journalist” or “curatorial journalist” counts me among his as-of-this-moment 548,264 Twitter followers.For those who haven’t encountered his work, Abramson is what’s more commonly called a citizen journalist in that he writes about the Russia probe (which he would probably describe as a “Russia-Saudi Arabia-UAE-Qatar-Israel probe”) but is not connected with a major media institution.Or he wasn’t, that is, until he landed a book deal with Simon & Schuster, to the deep annoyance of just about everyone I know in the business.Not me. I’m fine with it. I got my hands on a review copy, and it turns out — contrary to early indications — not to be a collection of his tweets after all. Instead, Proof of Collusion: How Trump Betrayed America is a straightforward 400-plus page distillation of the available reporting on the subject to this point, culled almost entirely from published news articles and court filings, all boiling down to a simple if troubling contention: “Donald Trump and a core group of ten to twenty aids, associates and allies conspired with a hostile foreign power,” as Abramson put it, “to sell that power control over America’s foreign policy in exchange for financial reward and — eventually — covert election assistance.”It is, as the author concedes, merely a “theory of the case” at this point. But it’s the only plausible theory, he adds, that “coordinates with all the existing evidence” and “explains decades of suspicious behavior by Donald Trump, his family, and his closest associates.”Incredible as the story of Trump’s Russian entanglements always sounds when stated plainly, the evidence Abramson assembles is compelling, and we don’t know the half of it. Robert Mueller, presumably, knows more.Proof of Collusion may surprise Abramson’s detractors. Written more in the style of a legal criminal complaint than a potboiler, the book is almost entirely devoid of speculative musing or all-caps melodrama. Readers will search in vain for the juicy West Wing backbiting that made airport best-sellers out of Michael Wolff’s Fire and Fury and Bob Woodward’s Fear. In fact, it’s not even all that entertaining — and that’s to its credit. It’s more like homework. Or more accurately, by pulling together the many strands of a dizzyingly complex story, it offers a meticulous cheat sheet to the homework we should all be doing, diligently prepared by the relentlessly ostracized dork in the front row.I first encountered Abramson via his now infamous “MEGA-THREAD” from March 23, 2017. It boldly alleged: “The plot to sell America’s foreign policy for foreign oil _and_ steal an election in the bargain began at the Mayflower Hotel.” That first tweet out of an eventual 50 — declarative, nervy, unequivocal — went live at 8:45 p.m. that day and has since received over 21,000 likes and nearly as many retweets.The sprawling analysis did seem a touch overblown at the time — with its feverish speculation about the Trump campaign’s last-minute decision to switch the setting for the candidate’s first foreign-policy speech from the National Press Club to a ballroom in the Mayflower Hotel, claiming they needed more space. Abramson maintained that the new venue was smaller, theorizing that the real goal was to find a venue with private VIP areas in which one might, if so inclined, host an exclusive 24-person cocktail reception that would include the ambassadors to three countries (Russia, Italy, and Singapore) that were involved in a massive sale of stock in Rosneft, the Russian oil giant.Nineteen months ago, this seemed like a bit of a stretch. Even though Abramson had laid out his case in seemingly obsessive detail, relying as he does in the book on elements that had been reported in mainstream outlets, the thread did have the breathless tone of a conspiracy theory. And Abramson’s questionable decision to advertise it as a “MEGA-THREAD” was, in terms of Twitter etiquette, a little like wearing Vibram FiveFingers shoes to a Miss Universe after-party.Deadspin pounced, declaring Abramson “the reigning king of diarrhea tweeting” and pointing out a fatal flaw in his reasoning: The Mayflower ballroom is bigger. Whoops.But then, another twist! In short order, Abramson pointed out that actually, no, the speech had taken place not in the grand ballroom but in a different space that was, in fact, smaller, forcing Deadspin to begrudgingly update its post.This stuff is homework, and the nerdy kid is on it.The more critical issue with Abramson’s thread, from a journalistic point of view, was that line about “[selling] America’s foreign policy for foreign oil.” Because while it is alleged in the famous Steele dossier that the Trump team, via Carter Page, had been offered a massive brokerage fee on the Rosneft deal in exchange for loosening sanctions on Russia, it is not yet proven. In fact, Page denied that such a meeting even took place — until months later when he admitted under oath that it had.Was Abramson making a few leaps? Sure. And he’d kind of bared his ass with that “MEGA-THREAD” stuff. It’s not hard to see why Deadspin took the approach it did: Exposing an international criminal conspiracy is really hard. Why bother trying to run it down, and probably failing, when you can scoff at it instead and sound just as smart?The derision was unseemly, though. Abramson’s assertions might not have met the standards of the New York Times or another prestigious outlet — but this was Twitter. A grain of salt is standard equipment. And compared with most of what pours through my feed, this struck me as solid content.In the year and a half since, I pored over quite a few “MEGA-THREADS.” I absorbed Abramson’s analysis of the 2013 Miss Universe pageant and especially the allegations made by Kata Sarka, the former Miss Hungary. I have scrolled, spellbound, through these mostly well-reasoned speculations about the private walkway linking Trump Tower and Carter Page’s offices at 590 Madison; about the decisive pressure campaign against Jim Comey by rogue agents in the FBI’s New York field office; about the curious travels of George Papadopoulos; and about the Trump-Kennedy deal to put Brett Kavanaugh on the Supreme Court.Were they airtight in every detail? I have no fucking clue. But they were good threads, pulling together the reporting of credentialed journalists — reporting that those same journalists were often failing to place thing in context. While I never went so far as to retweet them (brushing off Abramson’s many cringey entreaties to do so), I did find them insightful.That makes me a dupe, according to my colleagues in the media, who made a crusade of trying to shame me and Abramson’s other followers for our innocent habit. A pile-on ensued, in which it seemed just about everyone got in at least one good sucker punch. The New Republic took a shot (“conspiracy mind-set”), followed by the Atlantic’s McKay Coppins (“delusional”), the Atlantic’s David Graham (“bizarre”), Slate (“hyperbolic sleight of hand”), and the Washington Post, which helpfully pointed out that “The New Republic and Atlantic have both dismissed the professor as a conspiracy theorist.”They all warned me off, deploying the deadliest snark in their respective arsenals. I read each one, and then I kept reading Abramson. Sure, he got a little over his skis sometimes — like when he speculated about the identity of the dossier’s “Source E.” But the speculation was labeled as such, and thoughtfully reasoned; you could follow the logic, even dig up the source material if you were so inclined, and decide whether it made sense. Plus, as I said, it was just Twitter, and speculating on Twitter about the biggest and most mind-bogglingly Pynchonesque news story any of us have ever encountered seemed like a perfectly worthy endeavor. And anyway, even the mainstream media makes an occasional mistake.But wow, the shade. Taken together, the mini-genre of Abramson hit-pieces constitute a master class in journalistic smarm. Rather than engaging with the content of his feed, they sought to handcuff him to a brigade of left-leaning conspiracy tweeters with whom he has little in common. They taunted him for being a poet, for being a creative writing professor, and for calling himself an attorney when his membership in the New Hampshire bar was, in fact, classified as “inactive.” And of course, for being thirsty online.Curiously, though, what almost none of them bothered to do, with all the homilies about proper journalistic practice, was reach out to him for comment.“I totally would talk to them, and they wouldn’t be able to write their piece, by the way,” Abramson insisted, sitting on the patio of his tidy home on a suburban street in southern New Hampshire, where he lives with his wife, a bunch of bird plushies, and a Lego collection. This was in the spring of 2017. The Trump administration was still fresh, and Abramson’s follower count numbered in the lowish six figures. I happened to be on vacation nearby, and I’d arranged a meeting thinking he might make an interesting subject for a profile. We wound up talking for four hours.“I mean you can see from this conversation,” he went on, “that they probably would have just said, ‘Fuck this, I want don’t want to write about it because it’s too stupid and complicated.’”It occurred to me that he might have a point. Nothing about Abramson is stupid, but he is complicated. He’s a Twitter celebrity, granted, and a Harvard-trained lawyer, but he’s also a scholar with a penchant for esoteric ideas and philosophical musings. And yes, he’s a poet (and poets, as he helpfully pointed out, are accustomed to being misunderstood).With a chorus of birds in the background — bluejays, cardinals, robins, goldfinches, and “obviously a lot of sparrows,” he said — we talked less about Trump than about other aspects of his career, about his work as a criminal defense attorney and subsequent shift to academia; his battles with the literary establishment over the proper evaluation of MFA programs; his failed attempt to publish Shia LaBeouf’s tweets in the Best American Experimental Writing anthology, which he edits; his brazen incitement of the Star Wars fandom; his targeting by neo-Nazi hacker Andrew “weev” Auernheimer; and most of all, his embrace of a new philosophical paradigm known as metamodernism.Abramson, who grew up in Acton, Massachusetts, was a shy kid, a “nonclinical agoraphobic,” as he puts it. Aside from going to school, he told me, “I stayed in my room with the doors locked almost every day for years. That was my life.”When he finally resolved to make a change, it was a big one. At 19, he began working as a criminal investigator for a legal clinic in Washington, D.C., a move he thinks of as “a sort of violent overreaction to having done a certain amount of damage to myself as a young person by shutting myself off from the world. I went from sitting in my room to working the streets of Anacostia searching for witnesses and doing witness interviews.”After graduating from Dartmouth, he entered Harvard Law with the goal of becoming a defense attorney. Abramson began working cases while still in school under Rule 33, which allows law students to represent indigent defendants. Court authorities gave him just 60 seconds to make his case to clients that they should let a student-attorney represent them, crouching to offer his services through a narrow “Judas slit” in the prison door.“You feel like a fraud,” he said. “You worry that you’re going to let them down. And you see a lot of suffering.”He turned to writing as a sort of therapeutic intervention, knocking out 400 poems in one year. After spending seven years as a public defender, he burned out and decided to go back to school. “I just couldn’t do it anymore,” he said. “You’re seeing the car crash of our socioeconomics in the U.S. every single day. Emotionally I was breaking down. It was natural to reach for creative writing as a lifeline because it had always been that for me.”Abramson wound up getting an MFA at the Iowa Writers Workshop, followed by a doctorate in literary studies at the University of Wisconsin. Meanwhile, he became convinced that MFA programs were too insular. Many of the top programs offered little or no funding, which meant that only well-off students could afford to pursue the discipline. Abramson decided to create a new ranking system that took the views of applicants into account. Naturally, their responses favored programs that didn’t demand they go into crippling debt, and the results instantly upended the traditional hierarchy.Abramson says his goal was to force schools to offer MFA candidates more financial aid or risk their exalted status; meanwhile, he also pissed off a lot of people at elite programs. “They called me a charlatan,” he said of the backlash.Abramson describes his MFA ranking battle as his first attempt of many to redefine the role of poetry in American life.In May 2014, just two days after Elliot Rodger killed six people near the University of California at Santa Barbara, Abramson “remixed” Rodger’s final screed into an experimental poem and published it on the Huffington Post. The idea, he wrote, was to “to rescue language from a perversion of language,” to address the killer directly using his own words.The poem doesn’t really work, as even Abramson admits now. And he’d “crossed an uncrossable line,” he said. His detractors in academia denounced him, and a mass-condemnation on Twitter followed. “It causes me a lot of pain to think about,” he told me. “I was wrecked for six or eight months.”By December of that year, Abramson had soured on Twitter and deleted his feed, at least for awhile.If modernism, which flourished in the early 20th century, was animated by a belief in reason, science, and universal truths, postmodernists offered a powerful counterargument: Everything was relative. The grand master narratives were simply myths. Truth was in the eye of the beholder.Postmodernism turned out to be as depressing as it was persuasive, bringing on an epidemic of irony, self-consciousness, and passivity for which metamodernism proposes a cure. While it acknowledges that there is no objective truth, it nonetheless chooses to highlight the power of the stories, or “metanarratives,” that we tell about the world. And rather than getting hung up on longstanding dualities — cynicism versus optimism, reality versus fantasy, irony versus sincerity — it dances between the poles instead.It’s a heady concept, but those who stumble on it often begin to see examples of metamodernism throughout the culture. It certainly helps explain how Abramson managed to identify the tectonic significance of Donald Trump’s presidential bid when nearly everyone else in the media was laughing it off.The day after Trump announced his campaign in the summer of 2015, when the developer and TV star was just one of a dozen aspirants for the Republican nomination, Abramson posted an essay in which he argued that Trump’s was “a serious candidacy that will have serious repercussions for both Democrats and Republicans alike.” Rather than viewing the campaign as either a cynical branding ploy or a sincere attempt to lead the country, Abramson insisted it was both.“Trump is smart enough to know when he — or his speeches; or his haircut; or his political ambitions — are being mocked,” he wrote, “but in the Metamodern Age we can develop metanarratives that animate us even as we fully recognize that they’re farcical to everyone else.”As the campaign heated up, Abramson found himself doing the much same thing — developing metanarratives that, despite having a factual basis, were often seen as patently absurd. A supporter of Bernie Sanders, he wrote a series of pieces on HuffPo arguing that the Vermont senator had a real shot — essays that would later become Exhibit A in the media’s effort to paint Abramson as a peddler of false hopes for delusional liberals.The pushback, while missing the point, was predictable. Abramson’s headlines, like “Bernie Sanders Is Currently Winning the Democratic Primary Race, and I’ll Prove It to You” and “Bernie Sanders Could Still Win the Democratic Nomination — No, Seriously” were, he admits, a form of clickbait. And of course, Sanders eventually lost to Clinton, as the mainstream press had tirelessly predicted.But the pieces are more subtle than critics acknowledged. The first made an interesting and original observation: If you ignored early balloting (which often took place before Sanders was well-known to voters) and looked only at election day votes in states that Sanders contested, he often tied or beat Clinton. The second piece explores an unlikely but plausible scenario where Sanders’ habit of doubling Clinton’s lead in head-to-head matchups against Trump might just spook her superdelegates into a mass defection.Gaming out such unlikely scenarios was risky, and Abramson was roundly mocked for it. But that doesn’t make play-it-safe punditry a more valuable service to readers.Abramson’s metanarratives, by contrast, served to remind us that that there are no foregone conclusions in politics — a view that, had it been adopted by the mainstream press, might have insulated them from their own eventual mass delusion: that our 45th president would wear a pantsuit.What journalists don’t always seem to grasp is that we are also writing metanarratives — assembling the available facts to tell stories. Where Abramson views metamodernism as an antidote to postmodernism’s despair, the metanarratives proffered by the mainstream media tend to be cynical, in the familiar postmodern style. Despite a widespread desire to “make a difference,” we’re a jaded group by nature, hovering over the news cycle like streetwise Law & Order detectives called to yet another homicide. “Looks like we got another one,” we say, with a world-weary shake of the head.But the Trump campaign’s interactions with foreign powers, and Russia’s active measures, and everything that’s happened since do not actually constitute just another run-of-the-mill political scandal. Not even close. And while individual reporters have done impressive work illuminating various aspects of the story (and Abramson dutifully thanks them, and their employers, in his book’s acknowledgements), as a whole, the media hasn’t quite risen to the occasion. Day after day, they reach for an obsolete playbook: chasing scooplets then failing to contextualize them; amplifying the administration’s most farcical assertions and then sanctimoniously fact-checking them; examining the optics of each fresh outrage without illuminating the damage; and regularly failing to process the ramifications of their own reporting. (Note, for example, the recent uproar over Axios’ would-be scoop involving the supposed elimination of birthright citizenship.)One of the appeals of Abramson’s Trump threads is that the one-time criminal defense attorney has somehow retained the ability to recognize the apparent criminality behind Trump’s endless spectacles — the appointment of Matt Whitaker as acting attorney general being one recent example — when most of us have long since gone numb.All available evidence indicates that the chief executive of the world’s only current superpower has a history of criminal behavior going back decades, that his election owes in part to criminal acts and is therefore fundamentally illegitimate, that he may be compromised by a hostile power, and that he is now bargaining away the nation’s foreign policy and attacking its most deeply held values to save his own skin or fatten his wallet or both.Sounds like a hell of a story. It also sounds… kind of overwhelming.Weaponized eye-rolling is an understandable response to Trump’s manufactured chaos. It’s easier to moralize about the dangerous allure of conspiracy theories than to seriously consider the implications of what we already know. Then again, in much the way the entire media except two reporters ignored the implications of the Watergate break-in for a solid year, there was also a time, not long ago, when the Trump-Russia scandal might well have been buried amid the president’s endless barrage of distractions were it not for a bunch of annoying people — credentialed journalists as well as civilians — who wouldn’t stop harping on it.Under the circumstances, Abramson has performed a valuable service. While the rest of the media is feverishly chasing and then dissecting the latest unconscionable but somehow weightless revelation, he’s taken on the more complicated task of actually looking at what’s come to light, putting the pieces together and seeing what the fuck they add up to.Which isn’t to say he hasn’t made himself a pretty tempting target while doing so. Abramson is a weird dude. He’s really into Lego. He’s socially awkward and a little compulsive, and he may have a slight martyr complex. He takes himself extremely seriously. On occasion, he might overshoot the mark a bit. His book proposal sounds insane (although it did land him a book deal). He shamelessly solicits retweets and yet he has more followers than most of us put together.He’s also probably right. And until Mueller files his report — if he files his report — Abramson’s metanarrative may be the best we have.Cody Wilson used one word to summarize the culminating event in his years-long lawsuit against the U.S. government: “Epochal.”This was in July, when news became public about the Department of Justice reaching a legal settlement with Defense Distributed, the Texas nonprofit Wilson founded in 2012 to help distribute 3D-printed firearms. And the response was what I expected from Wilson, a 30-year-old provocateur prone to self-mythologizing. I met him in 2014, when he was 26, after he had successfully designed, manufactured, and test-fired the Liberator, the world’s first fully 3D-printed gun. That breakthrough, and his subsequent effort to disseminate the blueprint to anyone with an internet connection, unleashed all manner of hell.Wilson has long been a showman, equal parts ideologue and 1960s ad man, prone to philosophical meandering and asseverations about state tyranny and possessing a penchant for deliberately poking the political class. His sincerity was often questioned, but even four years removed, I knew what a victory over the federal government meant to him. It meant that Cody Wilson had come tantalizingly close to his dream of dismembering U.S. gun control.“I don’t have to argue philosophically now,” he said during a short phone call at the end of August. “I only have to argue the law.”Two weeks later, the law caught up to Wilson, albeit in a far different way. He was arrested in Taiwan and extradited to the United States for allegedly sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. He met her on SugarDaddyMeet.com, used his real name, called himself a “big deal,” picked her up in an SUV registered to Defense Distributed, took her to a hotel, had sex with her, and paid her five $100 bills, according to an affidavit by Shaun Donovan, a detective with the Austin Police Department. On September 21, the day of his arrest, Wilson resigned from the company.The scandal inspired a measure of glee in Wilson’s opponents. “But the NRA told us Cody Wilson was a good guy with a gun…,” Shannon Watts, founder of gun-control advocacy group Moms Demand, wrote on Twitter.The following Tuesday, however, Paloma Heindorff, vice president of operations at Defense Distributed, introduced herself as the nonprofit’s new director. Heindorff, a three-year veteran of the company, struck a defiant attitude during a press conference, describing her employees as “resilient” and parrying all queries about Wilson’s new legal predicament. Reporters present asked the obvious question: How does Defense Distributed continue on without Cody Wilson? Heindorff had an answer at the ready. “We believe in something, and that something isn’t one man,” she said. “That something is an idea, and we are fully committed to that idea.”For a moment, it may have seemed that the idea of 3D-printed guns might follow Cody Wilson down. But the idea Heindorff invokes — the idea that gun control as we know it can be destroyed by giving every American the capacity to build their own guns — may simply be too powerful to stop.Before 2013, Cody Wilson had used 3D printing to successfully manufacture rifle magazines and the AR-15 lower receiver (the piece, regulated by the federal government, that is required to actually operate the rifle). But it wasn’t until he released the Liberator that he became notorious. After Wilson uploaded the digital blueprints to Defcad.com, a clearinghouse Defense Distributed set up to share its various computer-aided design files for gun components, plans for the Liberator were downloaded 100,000 times. Two days later, Wilson dropped out of law school at the University of Texas. A couple days after that, the State Department ordered him to take his files offline, citing arms export control law. Because people in other countries could download those files, the government argued, Defense Distributed was illegally trafficking guns. Wilson complied and shut down Defcad.The Defcad files had been offline for a year and a half when I visited Defense Distributed’s Austin-based factory in 2014. That December, Wilson was preparing an entirely different project: the Ghost Gunner, a desktop milling machine that enables even know-nothing machinists to mill a four-fifths-finished aluminum lower receiver to completion. Because purchasing what’s called an “80 percent lower” doesn’t require a background check, users of the Ghost Gunner could complete the component and then purchase the remaining parts of an AR-15 rifle — also without a background check — to build an untraceable firearm. Wilson said he sold out a preorder of 500 machines, grossing $700,000, and teased his forthcoming legal battle. “There will be a Defense Distributed v. United States that those bastards at UT law will have to read one day,” he told me then.True to his word, in May 2015, Defense Distributed used the money from Ghost Gunner sales to sue the State Department, essentially arguing that the federal government ordering files off the internet is akin to a prior restraint of speech. In doing so, it coupled the First and Second Amendments by contending that digital files are a form of expression. The move found unlikely supporters. Even the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press submitted an amicus brief in Defense Distributed’s favor. “To come after the Second Amendment now, you increasingly have to come after people’s ability to publish and communicate,” Wilson speculated four years ago.When the State Department ordered the company to shut down Defcad in 2013, its argument concerned only the alleged violation of federal arms export control law, not the act itself of publishing digital gun files. After all, technical data about guns, including their manufacture, is readily available elsewhere online and in library books about gunsmithing.When the government settled this year, the State Department denied that it violated Defense Distributed’s First and Second Amendment rights — and yet the settlement itself indirectly conceded the point. It gave Defense Distributed a license to publish all the files it had previously ordered the company to take offline, effectively agreeing with Defense Distributed’s take on the fundamental question underlying the entire legal conflict: that computer code, even code that can lead to the production of a functional firearm, is protected speech.It was a bold gambit, but a winning one. On July 27, 2018, 10 files — including the full technical plans of the AR-15 and the 3D-printable design file of the Liberator — reappeared on Defcad.com. No longer was Wilson a mere tech-savvy Dennis the Menace. He was now a fully sanctioned arms dealer with the law on his side.The fact that Defense Distributed could continue distributing files is far less important than the broader implications of the fight. By savvy and subversive use of technology, Wilson had not only muddled what it means to sell, obtain, and own a gun; he had also called into question what a gun actually is, thereby transforming a legal question into a far more complicated technological problem practically inextricable from the concept of free expression. “I believe what I’m doing immeasurably enables the Second Amendment,” said Wilson during an interview with CBS on August 2. “It immeasurably expands it in a technical era.”Like Napster before it, Defense Distributed pushed America toward a new order where ownership is disordered, accountability is next to nil, and technology is always a few steps ahead of the law. This — anarchy, essentially — was always the plan. “What separated Defense Distributed from the impotent,” Wilson wrote in Come and Take It, the memoir he published in 2016, “was that when we said ‘universal access to arms,’ those who listened understood we meant just that… We not only meant it; we intended to take the fanatical steps to enact it.”Alarmed by the settlement with the federal government, state attorneys general moved in on July 30, four days after Defense Distributed’s files went back online. Eight of them sued the State Department, arguing that the settlement itself was unlawful. The next day, Judge Robert Lasnik of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington granted a temporary restraining order. Defense Distributed had to take down the files it had just reposted. On August 27, by which point attorneys general from 11 other states had joined in, Lasnik extended the order by granting a preliminary injunction, effectively blocking Defense Distributed, for the time being, from publishing its files online.“Regulation under the [Arms Export Control Act] means that the files cannot be uploaded to the internet,” Lasnik wrote in his court order, adding, “but they can be emailed, mailed, securely transmitted, or otherwise published within the United States.”True to form, the very next day, Wilson announced the company would sell the files via thumb drive to verified U.S. persons with verified U.S. addresses, likening Defense Distributed to the iTunes of digital gun sales. On the first day, Defense Distributed made $20,000 selling branded USB sticks that contained the 10 gun files it had just been forced to remove from the internet. The move smacked of the same counter-maneuvering that has marked the company’s efforts from the beginning.It is ongoing. “We’re still shipping and have no intention of stopping,” Heindorff said at the September press conference. “We believe that people have the right to have these files.”But the vision was always bigger than computer files, bigger than just getting a single-shot, 3D-printed pistol to fire. No mass shooting, no resurgent gun-control movement, no form of U.S. government could ever stand in the way of Defense Distributed’s first order of business: universal access to arms. Given many Americans’ strong attachment to the power of firearm ownership, this is an idea whose resonance will only deepen.The idea of universal access finds its perfect vessel in Paloma Heindorff, Wilson’s successor at Defense Distributed. Born and raised by artistic parents in central London, she grew up in a “socialist-leaning” family who was “definitely anti-firearm,” as she said during an episode of Tom Gresham’s syndicated radio show, Gun Talk, that aired in October 2017. It was only after she moved to New York City that Heindorff began her journey into pro-gun activism.“I was dismayed by the narrative in the world today, the idea we can be looked after by our government,” she told Gresham. “Not only is it ridiculous fundamentally, it also erodes the power that one can feel as an individual.”A libertarian friend of Heindorff’s originally turned her on to Defense Distributed. After spending a weekend watching slick YouTube clips of the nonprofit’s work, she emailed Wilson, received a reply, and in five weeks had moved everything she owned to Austin and took up a position at the company. In the span of two years, she went from having never fired a weapon to pulling the trigger on a .50-caliber M2 Browning machine gun.Heindorff didn’t respond to several email requests for comment, but it’s evident to anyone who has followed her that the idea of immeasurably enabling gun rights is as potent in Heindorff as it was in Wilson. “It’s obvious to everyone here that he’s been an incredibly powerful figurehead,” she said at the September press conference. “But this is about an idea.” Wilson may have the verve of a showman, but Heindorff has the zeal of a convert.Still, Heindorff must contend with one last obstacle: the preliminary injunction granted in August, a crucial, last-ditch effort for the states involved.“It’s been a happy coincidence for the states that the export laws have also protected the states themselves and their residents from these 3D-printed gun blueprints,” says Mary B. McCord, a visiting professor at Georgetown University Law School and former attorney with the Department of Justice. (In an article published over the summer, McCord called the First Amendment argument Wilson used in Defense Distributed’s legal fight mere “window dressing for his real goal: to put guns into the hands of every person who wants one.”)Since the preliminary injunction that took Defense Distributed’s files offline yet again, the company has raised about $400,000 to continue a legal fight it thought was over as of July. Defense Distributed filed its motion to dismiss in late October. If the case in Washington is thrown out, that protection the states have enjoyed goes away. (In the time since the motion was filed, a gunman killed 12 people at a bar in Los Angeles. Less than 24 hours later, a New Jersey law that outlaws 3D-printed guns and “ghost guns” went into effect. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said the law was passed “to stop the next Cody Wilson.”)Yet this fresh legal imbroglio has done little to halt Defense Distributed’s ultimate goal of expanding Americans’ access to guns. In a rebuttal to the state attorneys general, an unassociated website, CodeIsFreeSpeech.com, began hosting all the company’s files. (“Defense Distributed’s not posting its files, but you can find them in five seconds on Google,” says Josh Blackman, the group’s attorney.) Or you can simply buy a branded USB drive, a tiny source of terror that can’t be controlled: the samizdat of lethal weaponry, coursing through the underground, forever.Regardless of Cody Wilson’s fate, we’ve turned a corner. There’s likely no going back. His bitterest opponents, as much as anyone, know that fact all too well.“Cody Wilson was the face of Defense Distributed and 3D-printed guns, but we doubt that his movement will die with his resignation,” the co-presidents of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence said in a statement after Wilson resigned. “The Pandora’s box has been opened, and it will not go away with Wilson.”Last month, Apple added 158 new emojis to iOS, but the emoji keyboard on iPhone — the primary means of accessing each of these characters — remains almost identical to the one we used nearly a decade ago.Meanwhile, people push for competing interests. Some want more emojis to better represent the diverse world we live in while others are frustrated by the ever-increasing list of characters to scroll past when new emojis push old favorites to the side.“Just make it stop!” my friend Elle remarked after the most recent update, clearly falling in the latter camp of emoji traditionalists.The two problems have something in common: An ever-increasing library of emojis has started to push our gadgets to the limit. Too many new emojis make it harder to find what you actually want to use on the keyboard, and the keyboard itself can’t accommodate diverse options.All these issues need to be considered by the Unicode Consortium, the group responsible for approving new emoji characters each year. Unicode acts as the liaison between users and vendors when it comes to managing which new emojis come out when. (Full disclosure: My site, Emojipedia, is a voting Unicode member, and I participate with the emoji subcommittee.)With a potential onslaught of new emojis on the way in coming years, is the emoji keyboard up to the challenge?There are three main groups involved in approving, releasing, and using emojis. First, there’s Unicode, which approves and encodes emojis that will be supported by all major vendors — Apple, Google, and Samsung, for example. There’s no point in Unicode approving new emojis if vendors aren’t going to support them on their platforms.Meanwhile, those vendors want emojis that address the needs of their customers while remaining in line with their corporate values. They have a clear incentive to address user demand while also juggling how new additions fit on the keyboard and within the memory constraints of a mobile operating system.Finally, people who use emojis on products like iOS or WhatsApp want, well, a mix of everything. Some want more emojis to represent things like bagels; some don’t want a single new emoji unless the keyboard improves.Proposals for new emojis, both from companies and the general public, are assessed by the Unicode Consortium to see if they’ll be included in the Unicode Standard. But Unicode doesn’t handle the art direction for emojis; companies are responsible for how any emoji looks on their platform — which is why a smiley face looks different on an iPhone than a Galaxy — and that can make things complicated. Innovation can only go so far: Should any company stray too far from the rest of the pack, they risk drawing ire from their users. Plus, one company changing an emoji’s appearance won’t determine how it is seen by recipients with phones from different vendors.For example, one of the biggest issues with Apple unilaterally changing its gun emoji to look like a toy in 2016 wasn’t so much the change itself but the fact that Apple was the only company doing it. The result was cross-platform confusion where a toy water pistol could be sent from an iPhone and arrive as a lethal weapon on a Samsung Galaxy. (All major vendors eventually changed their gun emojis to toys in 2018.)Consider the wine glass emoji: It depicts red wine, not white, which could reasonably arouse the suspicions of a picky sommelier. If Unicode were to approve a new “white wine” character, it would raise other questions: What about rosé? What about stout or pale ale instead of a general beer? This might seem like nitpicking, but when you have a text-encoding standard that is deployed across billions of devices around the world, being thorough isn’t optional.To take a real example from the latest emoji update: Redheads, it seems, aren’t all that happy that they have been relegated to a single woman or man with red hair (plus skin tones) on the emoji keyboard. The bride emoji wasn’t given a red hair option, though she can have blond or brown hair. That problem extends to all the new hair-based emojis introduced this year. Though there are individual emojis depicting a person with curly hair, white hair, and no hair, you can’t mix and match them with other existing emojis, making it so that there are no options for a curly-haired runner, a red-haired surfer, or a bald police officer.Things become substantially more complicated when you add skin tones to the mix.The superhero emoji currently has 12 variants for gender and skin tone (six women, six men). Adding each hair type to those options of tones would take that 12 and make it 60 possible variants. Suddenly, choosing an emoji is like creating a character in The Sims — hardly feasible on a standard emoji keyboard.While accommodating all the different hairstyles would be a challenge, you could imagine how it would be possible — if Unicode and vendors decided to prioritize it. The emoji keyboard could probably handle four rows of hair types for each emoji if that was deemed a priority. But what if you wanted to mix all of this into the emojis that show more than one person — say, to create a diverse family? Well, it’s all about the numbers.As of 2018, most vendors don’t permit any emoji with multiple people in it to change skin tones. You can’t create a mixed-race family, and there would be two main design challenges if you could:Microsoft has some technology on Windows that makes emoji combinations more practical to implement than the pre-rendered designs used by Apple and Samsung. As such, Windows already allows thousands of family combinations in emoji format. But there’s a catch: There’s no interface to add them on the Windows emoji keyboard — which is lucky, actually, because no one wants to scroll past 52,000 family emojis to get to the lion or baseball.Those who don’t identify with the two current gender options that make up the bulk of the emoji choices have access to three gender-inclusive emojis for a child, adult, and older adult. These were approved in 2017 and effectively serve as a third unspecified gender for nonbinary folk (or anyone who happens to feel these emoji more closely resemble their personal style). These can’t currently be added to a family grouping on any platform nor are they given options for any of the new hairstyles. You can send an emoji of a mechanic, pilot, artist, or student who is a woman or a man but there’s not a gender-neutral emoji option for any of them.Diversity and representation are incredibly important, but there are real-world constraints that make unlimited diversity practically impossible given how emojis work today. The “press and hold” keyboard couldn’t support so many options, and even if it could, things would get extremely messy if some vendors adopted the diverse options and others didn’t.But there is good news on the horizon for diversity. An option to allow 55 new emojis for people holding hands is drafted for the 2019 emoji release. Being that there are only two people in this emoji, there are thousands fewer combinations than multi-person families would require.This might be the nudge vendors need to add new functionality to the trusty emoji keyboard, which could help down the line.The emoji keyboard is the most visible aspect of the emoji character set because it’s where we can see them all in one place. Apple’s emoji keyboard back in 2008 had just 471 emojis on it, yet it looked almost identical to the iOS keyboard today — which supports 2,776 emojis.Each new addition to the emoji keyboard is carefully inserted in the place it is deemed most logical, but users sometimes can’t find them. It’s easy enough to find the bagel among the food items, but what about the lab coat, ball of yarn, or abacus?And why do we need any of these new objects, anyway? It’s one thing to note that representation is important when it comes to people, but when it comes to objects, perhaps we’d manage fine without the new compass emoji added in 2018.Unicode has a wide variety of selection factors that go into determining which emoji proposals to approve. These mostly do a good job of filtering out emojis that aren’t likely to be popular or that really can’t be identified at tiny text sizes. The trouble is, an emoji that is superfluous to me might be considered essential to you. Just because I don’t have much use for a petri dish emoji doesn’t mean that no one does. For this reason, Unicode considers many new emojis every year, and it implements many of them.One feature would really help users sort through them all: search. Google has offered a search option on their Gboard emoji keyboard (that comes installed on stock Android devices) for years, and Apple has emoji search on the Mac.When it comes to the two most popular phone vendors on the planet — Apple and Samsung — there’s another alternative to scrolling for that perfect emoji, and that is autosuggest. When autosuggest works, it’s great. There’s no need to even open the emoji keyboard. I type “cocktail” and up comes a choice of two cocktail glasses. I type “monocle” and there is the monocle-wearing guy smiling smugly back at me. To get the finger pointing to the left, I type — well, I’m not sure, actually. “Pointing” gives me the single digit raised up; “finger” gives me no choices, and “left” suggests the word “leftovers” in the third segment of the screen where emojis generally appear.So go on, Apple, let us search.Another fix would be to let users hide emojis from the keyboard. Unicode doesn’t remove emojis from the Unicode Standard, but there’s nothing saying that every emoji must be shown on every emoji keyboard.It’s clear that when it comes to emojis for diverse families, couples, or other groupings, the “press-and-hold” function isn’t going to scale for hundreds or thousands of combinations. If diverse families are added to the mix in future years, the emoji keyboard will have to undergo substantial changes.Increased representation on our personal devices is important, and companies have recognized this by offering alternatives to the Unicode emoji set in recent years. Apple has Memoji, Samsung has AR Emoji, and Google has Minis, which all allow far more customization of individual people than Unicode could ever offer. These can’t be sent inline with text (one of the true reasons standard emojis are so popular), but they do fill a role that Unicode may never be able to.As Google’s head of emoji Jennifer Daniel puts it, “Sometimes you just really need a pink-haired monocle speckled giant hair bow wearing zombie with a goatee.” That level of detail is not likely in Unicode’s emoji future, but who knows what else might be?Every damn day, a window pops up in the upper right corner of my MacBook.Inevitably, I’ll click “try tonight” and, since my computer is rarely plugged in, I’ll get another notification — a reminder that updates can only occur when the computer is hooked up to a power supply.Despite feeling like I just updated my computer a few months ago, I’m still plagued with update notifications that pop up when I’m busy with other tasks (or just scrolling through Twitter). It’s relentless: Just when I thought I was free from my notification prison, I’d be reminded to update before I click — again! — “remind me tomorrow.”I’m not the only one enraged by my computer’s endless nagging. Tens of thousands of searches about disabling updates occur on Google every month, according to the platform’s keyword planning tool for advertisers. A 2017 Pew Research survey found that 14 percent of people never update their phone’s operating system, and 42 percent only do so when it’s convenient, despite these updates sometimes containing urgent security fixes.Research shows that notifications can destroy focus and even cause stress and anxiety. While researchers have yet to turn their clinical attention to software updates specifically, it’s likely that the unwanted diversion I get from annoying email push notifications, robocalls, or overactive group chats causes the same neurological response as my computer’s daily reminder that I’m not taking good enough care of it.Sara Thomée, an assistant psychology professor at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden, described it in evolutionary terms. Our brains, she told me, are evolved to react to stimuli to protect us against danger; a corresponding rise in stress hormones, like cortisol, will better enable us to react to that danger. In a sense, she said, technological notifications act in a similar way.“In a workday, where perhaps not many tigers are around, frequent notifications will probably raise our levels of stress and break our focus,” she said.One 2016 study looked at the neurological effect of smartphone notifications on subjects involved in a task, and found that notifications had a notable impact on the concentration and task performance of those prone to smartphone overuse. Research from the Future Work Centre, based in the United Kingdom, found that people who utilize email push notifications on their phones and computers also reported feeling stress and pressure around email.Part of that stress comes from splitting your attention between different things. Not only does switching your focus from one task (say, me writing this story) to another (a text message from my sister) require psychological energy; the inevitable switch back requires yet more energy, and that, Thomée said, delays productivity.Even worse, wrote neuroscientist Daniel Levitin in The Guardian, the necessary decision-making that arises when a notification interrupts another task causes further stress and energy depletion. Regardless of whether or not I elect to follow my computer’s prompt, the energy required to make that decision, and countless other similar, notification-prompted choices, accumulates over the course of the day.“It turns out that decision-making is also very hard on your neural resources,” Levitin wrote. “Little decisions appear to take up as much energy as big ones.”Thomée thinks guilt may play a part in this stressful energy depletion, noting that if we decide to go along with our technology’s demands, it could bring up anxiety about what that update will actually do to our devices. This fear isn’t entirely unwarranted: Apple is infamous for throttling older devices through iOS updates, and was hit last month with a $5.7 million fine from an Italian antitrust organization for slowing down phones with new software updates, as well as two class action lawsuits. Sony once released — and ultimately pulled — a PlayStation 3 update that completely broke some consoles.One study from May looked at why users don’t update their software by surveying existing literature and polling hundreds of people via Amazon Mechanical Turk and Google Consumer Surveys. It found that 7.5 percent of participants cited “update risk,” including “data loss due to the update, and whether the update may be malicious,” as a significant concern, compared to 40.5 percent for update “costs” like time and storage space. Twenty-nine percent cited “necessity” — whether the user feels the update is important or needed.Ultimately, as annoying and potentially risky as software update notifications are, it’s considerably more dangerous to leave your software out of date. Developers push updates in response to discovering vulnerabilities, so if you don’t update, you’re potentially putting your computer or phone at risk of being hacked.Yet, it’s undeniable that the current system doesn’t quite work, at least where apps are concerned. Research shows that push notifications trigger a majority of app uninstalls, which could be bad for business. And further studies found that even people who identify as software developers or IT professionals often neglect to update their software, and that timing certainly plays a role: If an update notification comes while you’re watching a video or doing work, you’re liable to ignore it.“Say you’re in the middle of talking to the board and your boss with this beautiful presentation you prepared for six months and then in the middle it says, ‘Please update your software.’ I mean, how stupid is that?” Nir Eyal, an author who specializes in the intersection of psychology and tech, said. Given the amount of data these companies have on us, Nir said, “they should be able to know when you’re in a meeting, when you’re using a piece of software and you don’t want to be interrupted.”“Silent updates,” where software automatically downloads and installs new data in the background to avoid interrupting users, can help. But that’s not always possible. For example, game or iOS updates can be many gigabytes large — too much to download over a cellular network, unless you’re into data overages — and require quite a bit of time to install.You can often opt into automatic updates via your device’s app store, and given how impactful those notifications can be, it’s probably wise to do so. There will always be some we must handle manually, however. Maybe we should also resign ourselves to the Sisyphean task of software updates as a price of admission in the modern world.Tim Wu has the kind of résumé that would make the most ambitious helicopter parent smile. A graduate of McGill and Harvard Law, Wu trained under some of the legal world’s biggest names, including Stephen Breyer, whom he clerked for on the Supreme Court. Wu was a professor by the time he was 30; today, he’s settled at Columbia Law, where he co-directs the Program on Law and Technology. Oh, and he worked for the Federal Trade Commission and later the National Economic Council, both under Obama. You might know him for coining the term “net neutrality” or for his 2010 book, The Master Switch, or maybe you voted for him for lieutenant governor of New York in 2014, when he took 40 percent of the Democratic primary.And yet, for all his time spent in the halls of power, Wu wants nothing more than to change the way America works. Wu’s slender but powerful new book, The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age, is a full-throated call for the government to use its authority to break up our biggest corporations, particularly tech titans like Facebook and Google.The day after the midterms, I reached Wu on the phone at his office in New York. We talked about the future prospects of antitrust politics, his thoughts on socialism and the state of the Democratic Party, and whether he’s auditioning for the role of America’s next great trust buster. Wu says The Curse of Bigness isn’t a job application, but he’s suspiciously well-qualified.Tim Wu: We’re dealing with a lot of questions that go back to the issue of concentration. If you look at decades of wage stagnation, huge inequality, that goes back to concentration. And our political system is controlled by those same monopolies too; you run into them whenever you try to make changes. It’s like if you want to change anything, first you have to handle the monopolies.We’ve had periods in this country where antitrust fervor was very strong. Both Democrats and Republicans had strong antitrust planks in their party platforms. There was even a whole antitrust party at one point. But it moved out of public view, into long court proceedings and back rooms. Antitrust got technocrafied and lost touch with the public. And that passion has been redirected elsewhere. With Trump, you have him channeling that energy at immigrants, for example, saying that’s who people should be upset with for the state of things, when it should be this corporate concentration. And over the past 40 years, antitrust has fallen out of the Democrats’ agenda too.Yes.I think so, yeah. People are hungry for big ideas — American ideas — that explain what’s going on, and antitrust does that. I’m not a socialist; I don’t think government should just own industries. That didn’t work too well in the 20th century. I do believe that we should, you know, have public options available in certain markets, but we need to learn from history on that one.I don’t think the two have to be opposed. Let’s say you’re a nurse in a small city, and all the hospitals are owned by the same company, and your wages haven’t gone up in years. You’ve got two ways of addressing that. The hospitals aren’t competing against each other for workers, because they’re concentrated, so you break up that hospital chain and you have a more competitive environment for labor and your wages go up. Maybe you also want to organize a union to handle it from that angle. But they don’t need to be opposed.Well, they convinced us — and maybe themselves — that they had a different business model, that they were giving things away for free, that antitrust didn’t apply in the same ways. I include myself in this, because I was at the Federal Trade Commission at the time, and we didn’t know how to deal with these companies. But then you start seeing the same sort of standard anticompetitive corporate behavior. You have these mergers, you have Facebook eating up Instagram, eating up WhatsApp, and then, let’s say, humbling Snap. They’re back to the regular corporate model.We should distinguish it from something like Wikipedia, which is different, and they took the steps and made the decision to set it up as a nonprofit. And that affects how it works. With these other companies, I think what happened is these guys decided they had to be billionaires.That’s true. Look, these are not the evilest companies on earth. Okay, Facebook has had some moments. But Google isn’t using child slaves to mine diamonds. I’d rather we have companies that aspire to do good, or at least not to be evil, than not have that. I think what happened is people started to think they could do more good by working in tech than by joining the government, and tech starts recruiting the kind of people who work in government. But nobody gets a pass.Ha, you mean is the book a job application? No, no, it’s not. But yes, I do think the iconic trust-buster/octopus hunter should make a comeback. That character helps connect the public to antitrust work. Trump is complicated, because he connects with the public in that way, fighting against companies as sort of rivals, but it’s not reflected in the policy.On the record, I’ll just say that I’m happy to work with anyone who wants to focus on antitrust. I’m especially happy to work with anyone who wants to appoint federal judges who are interested in antitrust. Economic thinking has fallen out of how Democrats evaluate judges, and it would be good to see that return. We need some neo-Brandeisians on the courts.He won? That’s great! He’s a friend and another Obama administration vet.Very strong. The states are going to have to step up. I ran at the state level. If the federal government doesn’t do it, then the states are going to have to. And there’s precedent for that: Minnesota took on the railroad, and Texas took on Microsoft early. But these cases can cost a lot of money and take a long time. Companies can wait states out.No, I haven’t heard of that one. I guess it’s so much of my work life that when I relax, it’s not what I search for.Huh. I’ll have to do that.Mars, our neighboring red dot, has been the focus of human exploration for hundreds of years. Science fiction writers, scientists, and explorers alike have spent decades imagining what life would be like if humankind could pick up and move there. Never mind the radiation, lack of oxygen, and inhospitable atmosphere. According to some billionaires and scientists, Mars is our future.The private space industry has exploded, with companies like SpaceX, Blue Origin, and Virgin Galactic all designing spacecrafts to bring people to the cosmos and orbit the earth as tourists, or, in SpaceX’s case, to set up a massive settlement of humans on Mars.But the field of space exploration is at an ethical impasse.Let’s set aside for a moment the fact that space travel is difficult and risky, and that people could die on the journey. Critics of privatized space travel also take issue with the implications these companies are built on. What does it mean when a company makes it their goal to colonize an entire planet?The desire to become interplanetary harkens back to the 19th century, when colonizers believed it was their God-given right to expand out to the west and take over land and communities. The adoption of Mars as a second home is the Manifest Destiny of the 21st century. Even the language is problematic. “Colonize Mars” is one of the phrases private companies use most often to describe their grand plans. SpaceX sells a T-shirt that reads “Occupy Mars.”“These issues intersect with so many lessons that we have here on Earth, be it the rights of indigenous people or the way we even think about a wild environment,” says Lucianne Walkowicz, the Baruch S. Blumberg NASA Chair of Astrobiology at the Kluge Center, and astronomer at the Adler Planetarium who studies the ethics of Mars exploration.Throughout history, colonization has resulted in mass deaths, the spread of disease, and the decimation or suppression of native cultures. Yet these issues are rarely discussed among Mars colonization planners. Some think Mars is a dead planet, covered in a fine layer of rusty dirt, rocks, and some frozen water. But despite our constant and steady exploration of Mars over the past 50 years, it’s unknown whether life exists there, or ever did. “We don’t know whether there is a history that we could study there or learn about,” Walkowicz says. “We don’t know whether there is life under the surface. There could be microbial communities. There could be more complicated stuff. We just don’t know.”Space moguls like Elon Musk brush off the issue. During a panel interview at the annual American Geophysical Union meeting in 2015, Musk was asked about planetary protection measures. “I think the reality is that there isn’t any life on the surface of Mars,” he responded. “There may be microbial life deep underground, where it’s shielded from radiation and the cold. That’s a possibility, but in that case, anything we do on the surface is not going to have a big impact on the subterranean life.”Experts don’t necessarily agree with Musk’s view and argue that more research is needed before declaring that there’s nothing worth preserving on the planet.Mars remains an untouched environment. Landing hundreds of people on the surface would be the equivalent of walking into a controlled laboratory and dousing everything with grime and dirt. For space scientists, the experiment would be ruined. Not to mention the fact that humans don’t have a great track record when it comes to environmental preservation. The health of our own planet — one that has clean water, breathable air, and an atmosphere that keeps us alive — is in crisis. We’ve done a terrible job taking care of the Earth. Why would Mars be any different?The fact is that scientific exploration is not the goal for wannabe Mars dwellers, and issues related to space preservation largely fall to NASA. While companies like SpaceX work closely with the agency, their goals are not necessarily aligned. It is the job of NASA’s Office of Planetary Protection to promote responsible exploration of the solar system and protect any indigenous life form, even if it’s ancient and no longer alive. Walkowicz says she worries that the current administration may be too lenient, policy-wise, toward business interests.Musk and others stand by their intentions to transport humans to Mars as a way to save the species in case of a disaster, like an asteroid or the repercussions from a massive world war. If we are wiped out, at least we have some extra human stock on Mars. But this logic is flawed, Walkowicz says, because it is “spreading the idea that global annihilation due to an asteroid could happen at any moment.”“It injects an urgency into human beings going to Mars that doesn’t actually exist,” she adds. “They’re always talking about the asteroid strike or in a billion years the sun is going to expand and make the earth too hot. Nobody ever brings up climate change.”If there is going to be a backup plan for humanity, who gets to be backed up? Mars settlement plans are likely to be offered to a select group of people, like those who can afford a $200,000 ticket on a SpaceX rocket. Although Musk paints a picture of a comfortable space life, anyone who takes that journey should know the risks. They might not get to come back. Mars could become home to a lot of unhappy wealthy people.If we have a chance to do this all again, experts argue, we should be careful and put a lot more thought and consideration into both the ethics and logistics of sending people to Mars. As part of her Kluge fellowship, Walkowicz recently held a conference called Decolonizing Mars that brought together scientists, philosophers, writers, artists, ethicists, and engineers to begin discussions on alternative plans. Walkowicz says she isn’t totally against sending humans to Mars, but she thinks the prospect needs to be approached more inclusively. “There are certainly aspects of learning about Mars — both its present and its history — that are way more efficient if you have humans there locally,” she says. “So I think there are compelling scientific reasons for humans to go.”Mars is by no means a realistic backup plan for our survival. It is, however, a hot spot for scientific exploration. Those who dream of setting up large communities in the cosmos need to work in tandem with those who have different goals and perspectives.“Just because there are some multibillionaires who have ideas about how we should go to space,” Walkowicz says, “doesn’t mean that there aren’t a lot of us with other ideas.”I meet Christy Harrison in a crowded Brooklyn bar on the first night of summer in 2017. She’s an extremely pretty brunette with chic, angled bangs and a great navy-striped dress. There’s also something just a little bit guarded about her. As we talk over pork belly sandwiches, I decide it might be from knowing she appears to fit seamlessly into one mold — stylish, thin, healthy-food-oriented — when, in fact, she’s been working hard for many years now to build a different kind of reputation. “I was a food writer,” Christy says, “who was really struggling with food.”Christy was on staff at Plenty, a hip indie magazine that ran for a few years in the mid-2000s, and later at the iconic Gourmet magazine in the final two years before it folded in 2009. She wrote about organic farming, biodynamic wine, and the evils of processed foods. “Oh, and I definitely helped fan the flames of the gluten-free craze,” Christy tells me. She’s not proud of this. Because in between all those fancy press lunches, chef interviews, and junkets on organic farms, Christy was spiraling. What began as a diet in college turned into a full-blown eating disorder by her early twenties. “My symptoms never fit neatly into one eating-disorder diagnosis,” she explains. “I would move between restricting, bingeing, and over-exercising, over and over, but it was always sort of nebulous.” Christy can only see the patterns of her disorder now, in retrospect. At the time, she thought she was just “obsessed with food,” and really no different from anyone else around her.Christy and I didn’t know each other during those years, but her story is familiar. I know the world she inhabited, because I was at its periphery, as a junior health editor at the now defunct Organic Style magazine, and later, as the kind of freelance writer whom women’s magazines call when they need a piece on which types of produce are the most important to buy organic, or why you should learn to cook quinoa.On one freelance assignment in 2007, I found myself sitting at the bar of the famed farmhouse-chic restaurant Blue Hill at Stone Barns, in Pocantico Hills, New York. It was noon on a Wednesday and the restaurant was closed, but I was eating the most delicious salad of my life, hand-prepared by the celebrity chef Dan Barber with greens picked that morning from his greenhouse and wild mushrooms foraged from the forests around the farm.I was there doing research for a book with a woman who, at the time, was a little bit famous for her philanthropy and her extreme vegan politics. After we ate our salads, the waiter brought out a plate of fresh-baked chocolate chip cookies for dessert. “Are those made with white sugar?” she asked. “I think we’re all done.” I had only eaten six mushrooms and three handfuls of micro-greens. The cookies, the waiter explained, were made with fair trade dark chocolate and butter from a cow named Tallulah. The vegan demurred again, this time citing her sympathy for Tallulah. Her assistant and the restaurant’s publicist followed suit. I took the cookie. Even the waiter seemed surprised.Back then, I focused on eco-food issues because I thought that niche would help me avoid writing the kind of weight-loss stories that women’s magazines are so notorious for running every month. I wrote those, too — when you’re a broke freelance writer, there’s not much you won’t write about — but always with a degree of existential crisis and bargaining: I would write them for women’s magazines, but not for teen magazines. I would write one about the relationship between blood sugar and white sugar because that seemed scientific and important. But eventually, I stopped wanting to write any such stories; I hated trying to find definitive answers about weight loss when the science was constantly shifting. And I hated telling women how to make their bodies smaller when I didn’t really believe they should. And so I embraced the eco-food movement, because — on the surface, at least — it wasn’t about calorie counting or crash diets. It was okay to eat the cookie, I thought, as long as it was made with fair trade chocolate and local butter and eggs. But as I learned that day at Stone Barns, it still wasn’t okay to eat the cookie, no matter how sustainably sourced the ingredient list was.This is because the eco-food movement, also known as the eco-gastronomy or alternative-food movement, was busy embracing the war on obesity, joining the front lines of the fight. And food became something to categorize — whole or processed, real or fake, clean or dirty — and to fear. Pretty soon almost every food and health writer I knew was dropping gluten or white sugar from her diet, then bringing it back, then dropping something else. Now that trend has gone mainstream; even my 88-year-old grandmother knows what gluten is and why half her family isn’t eating it on any given day. And that’s because the early to mid-2000s represented a kind of cultural awakening around food, driven by the success of movies like Super Size Me and books like Fast Food Nation and The Omnivore’s Dilemma. To be a food journalist, especially in New York City, at the glossy magazines that Christy wrote for, meant that you had be up on who made the best artisanal iced coffee and designer cupcakes, but also on the latest research showing why we’re not really meant to digest dairy, or the differing omega-3 quantities of grass-fed and grain-fed beef. It all felt really important, as if we were on the verge of discovering a profound connection between nutrition, health, and the environment that nobody had ever seen quite that way before.Connecting all her food anxieties to a larger movement made Christy feel “like I wasn’t just this vain, selfish person trying to lose weight.” Suddenly, her obsession with food had a larger, nobler purpose. “I thought, ‘I can help change the landscape and make everyone healthier,’” she said. “There was some desire to be communal about it, a kind of social justice drive.” Giving up meat and gluten wasn’t dieting — it was a hard and virtuous life choice that would transform your health and boost your green street cred at the same time. But in the hands of those celebrity chefs, food activists, actresses turned health gurus, and the media who love them, “eating clean” involves trading one set of food rules for another. “Now, I think about how much I was struggling and so were all these other food writers I know,” Christy says. “We kept thinking we were finding answers. But really, we were participating in this mass marketing of disordered eating.”It took several more years before Christy came to that realization and began to think critically about the alternative-food movement and the “clean eating” craze that it helped to fuel. As a food writer, she continued to cycle between the extremes of her disorder. Because a big part of the job is going out to eat exotic, lavish meals, at some point, a food writer who doesn’t eat just starts to look weird. “But I’d compensate by restricting even more when I was on my own,” she notes. And when Gourmet folded in 2009, Christy was still deeply passionate about helping to spread the gospel of whole foods, so she decided to get her master’s in public health and become a dietitian.At first, studying nutrition all day only further entrenched Christy’s eating habits. She wanted to do well in school, and it seemed as if eating perfectly was part of being a model student. But one day in class, everyone was told to partner up and take each other’s body measurements. They got on scales, they wrapped tape measures around their waists, hips, and necks, and they used calipers to measure the fat on the undersides of their arms. Obsessively tracking body size in this way is the kind of thing that people with eating disorders do all the time; so much so that putting away the scale and the tape measure is often an essential first step in any treatment program.Although Christy was far from recovered, she had made enough progress to know how dangerous it was for her to obsess over numbers like these. But refusing to participate didn’t feel like an option. So, she wrote down all her measurements. Then she looked in the textbook to see how her numbers compared to the “ideal” weight for someone of her height and build. She was, as she puts it, “more than a few pounds” over the textbook limit. “At first, I panicked, like, ‘Okay, I’ve got to really double down and eat even better,’” Christy recalls. “Then I realized: the only time I’d been that small was when I was in the most intense restriction period of my eating disorder.” She was done. “That’s when I decided to just throw out that whole model of thinking about food and weight.”When I reported nutrition stories in the early 2000s, conventional dietitians were often rattled by the organic foodie approach, and kept pointing out the surprisingly high calorie count of foods like olive oil, quinoa, and almond butter. But over the past decade, the two camps have slowly merged. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics spokespeople whom I interviewed for Redbook and Runner’s World became more fluent in the language of clean eating. They began talking less about how to choose chicken breasts the size of a deck of cards, and more about the nutrient profiles of various nut butters and how to cook whole grains. Meanwhile, the newer generation of alternative foodies has become much more interested in things like protein and carbohydrate grams, and how many of each you should or shouldn’t eat per day. And one core philosophy has always united both approaches: That we are what we eat. That food is medicine. And that there is no problem — be it constipation, migraines, infertility, or cancer — that cannot be solved, or at least vastly ameliorated, by changing your diet.There is a kernel of truth in almost every one of these notions. The industrialization of agriculture and food production has led to an overabundance of high-calorie foods, many of which are marketed with a veneer of health because they’re “low carb” or “gluten-free,” while also being largely nutrient-free. Producing these foods causes significant environmental damage and involves the use of chemicals and ingredients that aren’t great for our health.The problems begin when we consider the corollaries to statements like “You are what you eat.” If that’s true, then eating “bad” foods (Big Macs, Slushies, anything made with white flour or sugar) makes you a bad person. Or at least an uninformed, undisciplined one. Organic farmers and food activists may have originally banded together to take on huge corporations within the agricultural-industrial complex. But infusing their arguments with messages about health has led to the rise of a wellness-industrial complex, in which nutritionists, personal trainers, cookbook authors, and other “alternative-health experts” target us for our individual choices.Alternative food and wellness are big business now. The Amazon-Whole Foods deal was worth $13.7 billion. Sales of old-school diet staples like Lean Cuisine meals may have dropped by $100 million between 2014 and 2015, but expensive, largely organic meal-delivery services like Blue Apron generated close to $1.5 billion in sales in 2016. The Global Wellness Institute, a nonprofit based in Miami, Florida, which conducts industry research, calculates that the worldwide “wellness economy” is now worth $3.7 trillion. They attribute $999 billion of that to beauty and anti-aging products, and another $648 billion to “healthy eating, nutrition, and weight loss.” And the marketing around these products and services is just as powerful as any fast-food ad campaign.We are now so certain that every aspect of our health can be improved through diet, we can only blame ourselves when those diets fail. When cutting out gluten doesn’t work, we move on to dairy, then soy. When we still don’t feel better, we start reading about the evils of nightshade vegetables or peanuts. Still feel bloated, or tired, or lacking in energy — all impossible-to-quantify symptoms that may just reflect the unavoidable state of being mortal and not part superhero? Probably it’s because you weren’t careful enough about that gluten. Nutrition has become a permanently unsolvable Rubik’s Cube. So, we read more books, pin more blog posts, buy more products, and sign up for more classes and consultations. And we don’t realize how many of the so-called experts guiding us through this new and constantly changing landscape are exactly where Christy once was — fighting their own battles with food.Today, Christy still works as a dietitian, but she has dramatically revamped her practice. She worked in-house at two eating-disorder recovery centers in the New York area, and now coaches private clients, people who have gotten caught up in our culture-wide fixation with dieting and detoxes, and want to find a way out. She also hosts a weekly podcast, Food Psych, in which she interviews other dietitians, therapists, and people in the wellness industry who are trying to fight back against what Christy alternately refers to as “diet culture” or “the thin ideal.” Food Psych is well ranked on iTunes’ list of the Top 100 Health Podcasts, but when you look at the rest of the list — with names like Half Size Me, Livin’ La Vida Low-Carb, and Vegan Body Revolution — you realize just how hard this thing is that Christy is trying to do.You may have noticed that Porter County, Indiana still had 0 percent reporting for the 2018 election as of Friday morning. In the map below, Porter is that gray county in the upper left. I was a poll worker there this past Tuesday.Buckle up, because nothing in this story goes according to plan.This was my first year as a poll worker. My husband signed up with me. I was a poll clerk and my husband was an election judge (responsible for checking IDs at the door, helping with the scanners, and delivering ballots to the courthouse at the end of the day). We were excited to do our part to ensure every eligible voter in our county was allowed to cast a ballot. Yay, democracy!Our excitement started to wane when we weren’t trained. We emailed multiple times to ask about training. We were repeatedly told we would be trained soon. Finally, on October 26, after we’d practically begged over email to be trained, the county set up classes. However, they made it very difficult for poll workers to attend. Classes were announced at the last minute or were only offered during the workday. Due to the inconvenient and inflexible timing of these classes, I was unable to make any of the in-person training sessions. Instead, I watched the county’s online training videos and thoroughly studied the training manuals.I learned that each precinct has two judges and two clerks, one from each party. They’re there to ensure fairness. An inspector (a.k.a., the boss) is appointed from the leading party in each county. In theory, it’s very balanced. If anything, I’m glad I volunteered because I was able to see how elections work.Before I describe the shit show that was election day, I’ll note that everyone at the polling location was kind and there for one reason only — to make sure every single eligible person had the opportunity to vote. Democrats and Republicans worked together. The Republican inspector was fantastic. Honestly, it was inspiring.However, when we showed up at 5 a.m. on Election Day, we noticed many of the required election officials were missing. Two inspectors were M.I.A., and so were the ballots. We also didn’t have the required Republican and Democratic counterparts for each position. Less than an hour before the election was to start, we were unable to open — let alone guarantee a fair election. The only inspector who was there began making calls.The rest of us did what we could to get ready with limited supplies and people. At 6 a.m., the ballot boxes weren’t working. Inspectors were still M.I.A. We couldn’t open. My stomach sank. I was trying to do something good and now I’d probably be on local evening news.Finally, a sheriff’s deputy showed up with two suitcases full of ballots. (I originally mentioned on Twitter that he showed up after 6, but my husband said he thought it was actually shortly before 6. It was a hectic morning, and I apologize for the initial error.) We were still missing the required Republican and Democratic counterparts for each polling position so we improvised. We combined positions between the three precincts present and opened the polls at 6:12.Whew, right? Not even close. It just got worse.Shortly after we opened, voters from a fourth precinct started to show up. The newspaper had listed four precincts at our location. We knew nothing about this, and we had zero workers or ballots for a fourth precinct (we barely had what we needed for the three precincts we knew about).I wasn’t about to let these people just walk away without getting a chance to vote, so I got on the phone and started making calls. I tried the election and voter registration office numbers. All lines were busy. I finally tried the state election hotline and was able to reach someone. They informed me that the fourth precinct was not supposed to be at my polling place. So, I began sending those voters to the right address.The clerk’s office had listed the wrong address online. The newspaper used that misinformation in their election article. The Chesterton Tribune later published a correction:Everything should have been okay then, right? Uh, no.I soon learned the new location for the fourth precinct wasn’t open. Poll workers were in the parking lot, locked out. So, they turned voters away. Voters — many of whom I’d turned away — started coming back to our location, desperate to vote. I finally reached someone at the local level and told them about the locked polling location. By this time, it was 6:56 a.m. (nearly an hour after polls opened), and the official I spoke to was hearing about this issue for the first time.It was later reported that the locked location opened at 7:45 a.m., along with eleven other locations in the county that opened at least an hour late. That doesn’t even include locations like ours that opened approximately 15 minutes late.The courts got involved. The Democrats’ lawyers wanted to extend hours at those locations to make up for the late openings. Republicans fought it, originally saying an extension would be unfair (later, according to local media, they claimed the court did not have legal authority to extend voting hours). Thankfully, the state judge ordered the extended hours.But again, this was still not over.Around noon, we were told to expect a delivery of absentee ballots to count and include in our precinct’s vote total. We waited. Hours went by. No absentee ballots.The inspector started making phone calls. By now, it was 5 p.m. and there were still no absentee ballots. This may not seem like a big deal, but we’re talking about 15,000 or so absentee ballots across the county. All of them were supposed to be opened by me and the other clerks. We were supposed to look up every absentee voter in the poll book of registered voters, make sure they hadn’t voted in person, and mark them down as an absentee voter in the poll book. All of these absentee ballots were M.I.A. When 6 p.m. arrived, local officials told us to close without any absentee ballots. The inspector and the judges locked up the regular ballots and took them to the courthouse to be processed.When my husband, an election judge, arrived at the courthouse, he was told he couldn’t leave. Deputies were driving around the county in an attempt to deliver absentee ballots, but they were reporting that polling locations were closed. Apparently, no one could leave until the absentee ballots arrived and were counted. It was all very confusing.At this point, I put on my coat and was about to head to the courthouse myself to help count the absentee ballots. It didn’t matter that I had just worked for 13 hours. I was ready to finish my job. As I was walking out the door, my husband texted me to say I wasn’t allowed to help. Something about “chain of custody”? Whatever the reason, I was told I should stay home.Meanwhile, chaos was breaking out at the courthouse. People were worried about what happened to those absentee ballots while they were missing. Was the election compromised? Word spread that the absentees wouldn’t be counted, but instead would be marked as provisional ballots. Early voters were afraid they had possibly thrown their votes away. Local social media blew up. I tried to keep people informed, but I only knew what I saw and what I heard from my husband. The courts weighed in again to sort it out, ruling that all ballots (including absentee ballots) should be counted and included in the final results.At the same time, races were called. People in my county saw winners announced and knew their votes were sitting in a squad car somewhere, unable to affect the race at all.Lawyers and the courts (and now the FBI) are figuring out what happened in Porter County on November 6, 2018. They’ve reassured us that everything will be thoroughly investigated. We’ve been told that processes will be changed so this never happens again. Porter County’s election results have just been released, but the damage has already been done.It’s one thing to see a race called with 50 percent of your precinct reported. Your vote could have been in that 50 percent. Yes, technically, your vote could have been in the half not yet counted, but still, you can believe your vote mattered, even if your candidate didn’t win.It’s a completely different thing to know that your vote couldn’t possibly have mattered due to the incompetence of your local government. To know that officials in charge of the election did such a shoddy job that your ballot was sitting uncounted in a box in the trunk of a squad car as the rest of the country made critical decisions about its future.Officials in charge of this election weren’t equipped to do their job. They didn’t train us. They were short staffed. They broke multiple election laws, and I’m not sure they’ll ever be held accountable.Note: Elections in our county used to be run by an election board. This year, they voted to have the County Clerk’s office run it instead. The County Clerk was one of the deciding votes that made the change happen. That County Clerk, who was now in charge of this election, was on the ballot for County Auditor. Thankfully, she lost. Officials are now asking her to resign.It’s an unspoken downside of innovation: Sometimes a push into new technology can leave certain people behind. Ideas like virtual reality, touchscreens, and 3D television might promise new experiences for most of us. But for people with disabilities, they can mean motion sickness, muscle pain, or worse.This innovation-disability gap is a major problem in video games, and one company is doing a particularly bad job dealing with it. While Nintendo rides high on the success of its new Switch console, people with disabilities struggle to enjoy the company’s games. These gamers complain of trouble navigating hits like Super Mario Odyssey — if they can play the games at all — because they’re packed with fiddly interactions requiring a flick of the wrist or sensitivity to a controller’s vibrations. Nintendo didn’t reply to a request for comment before deadline.These problems with the Switch have actually plagued the company’s products for years. The company’s Wii console, launched way back in 2006, also relied on innovative motion controls that shut some people out of the system — ironic, because the Wii was supposedly designed around accessibility.Super Mario inventor Shigeru Miyamoto wanted to make a game controller that got away from the complicated buttons, sticks, and triggers you might find on a typical gaming joypad. Aware that nongamers might be intimidated by something like the standard Xbox 360 controller, Miyamoto created the Wii remote with an accessible design “that would make people want to pick it up and try using it.”The remote ended up being painted in glossy iPod white, had few buttons to press, and looked like a stylish TV remote. But the secret ingredient was a motion-sensitive chip that could translate swipes, wiggles, points, and shakes into gameplay on the screen.Suddenly, playing a golf game was as intuitive as holding the controller like the handle of a putter and swinging it toward the TV. The Wii remote could magically transform into a tennis racket or baseball bat, a conductor’s baton or a musical instrument, a sword or a pistol.This opened up gaming to a whole new audience, just like Miyamoto dreamed. There were stories about Wii bowling leagues in retirement homes and reports about the console showing up in Buckingham Palace and Obama’s White House.But for those with certain disabilities, the Wii remote proved to be completely inaccessible.Riley Park, 28, told Medium that he’s always loved Nintendo games. The first console his family owned was the Nintendo 64, and they kept playing with it until the Wii came out in 2006. But around that time, Park was diagnosed with essential tremors, a nerve disorder that causes parts of your body, usually your hands, to shake uncontrollably.“Small movements really cause my hands to shake, to the point where I sometimes require both hands to hold onto a spoon,” Park said. This made gaming with a motion-sensitive controller very difficult.“I had continual problems,” he explained. “Whenever any game required you to hold the remote in a certain still position for a time, like with Mario Party or the Rabbids party game, I often failed those. I sort of stopped playing games that were like that entirely, especially around friends.”The success of the Wii inspired other companies to dabble with controllers that created hardships for people with disabilities. In 2010, Microsoft launched the body-sensing Kinect camera for Xbox, which Wired memorably dubbed a “Wii-too product.” With games like Dance Central, it asked players to flail about, swing their arms up and down, and generally make massive fools of themselves. Needless to say, that was practically impossible for gamers with any number of physical disabilities.Years later, companies would launch virtual reality headsets like the Oculus Rift. These technological marvels can leave people with inner-ear conditions like vestibular neuritis feeling queasy.And when online multiplayer games started introducing voice chat, they left gamers who were deaf unable to communicate with team members.Though innovations like the Kinect could largely be ignored, all of Nintendo’s recent consoles have focused on technical gimmicks that exclude players with physical disabilities. If you want to fully enjoy some of the most popular games on the Switch, you will have to deal with motion controls.Hannah Wooffitt, 24, lives with chronic fatigue syndrome, and being bed-bound for multiple years has caused her muscles to atrophy. “Nintendo’s motion controls are my enemy,” she said.“My boyfriend loves Nintendo games, but there are few multiplayer games that I can actually play,” she added. “He was excited for a new Mario Party on the Switch in the hopes we could play it together, but when he bought it, we quickly found out that it was motion controls only, so that was the end of that.”Super Mario Odyssey, the latest entry in the long-running franchise, is littered with similar problems. The bombastic adventure locks many of its special moves behind motion controls. If you want to launch your buddy Cappy at enemies like a homing missile, for example, you need to frantically shake the controller (or, if you’re playing in handheld mode, the entire system).“I love Odyssey, but I have found some of the advanced spins and jumps nearly impossible to do,” Park said. Wooffitt ended up having to watch her boyfriend play the game rather than enjoy it with him.You can’t turn off those motion-powered moves, leading a gamer with Parkinson’s to rant on Reddit: “Is it possible to not throw Cappy every three seconds when your hands shake like a fucking washing machine on spin cycle?”There’s a lot Nintendo could do to fix these problems. It routinely has basic commands tied to wiggling a controller, like pounding on the floor in Donkey Kong, pirouetting in Mario Galaxy, or swinging a sword in Twilight Princess. These moves could easily be triggered by a button press, if only there were an option to do so.And if you look beyond Nintendo games, you’ll find that gaming is more accessible than ever, as game makers have figured out how to make them work with different disabilities.The addition of symbols in the color-swapping puzzler Hue make the game playable even for people who are color-blind. Fortnite helps people who have trouble hearing with an option that translates the sounds of footsteps and gunshots into visual indicators. Both PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, the two major rivals to the Nintendo Switch, let you change which buttons do what across the entire console.Best of all is Microsoft’s new Adaptive Controller for Xbox One and the PC. This cool bit of customizable equipment can clamp onto wheelchairs and hook up to all manner of accessible inputs like foot controllers, one-handed joysticks, and easy-to-press switches.But while the controller can even work on PlayStation consoles and Macs (with the right adapters), “the only place it does not work is with any Nintendo consoles,” said Steven Spohn, chief operating officer at AbleGamers, a charity that advocates for gamers with disabilities.Spohn worked with Microsoft on its Adaptive Controller but said Nintendo has “repeatedly declined to work with us.”“It breaks my heart every time someone with a disability emails me excitedly, claiming they are getting a Nintendo Switch, and they want to know how to make it accessible, because nine times out of 10, we can’t make it any more accessible,” he said.Nintendo has offered some good accessibility options in certain games. Beat ’em up ARMS lets you completely customize the game’s controls. Colorful shooter Splatoon 2 is considerate of color-blind gamers. 1–2 Switch’s hyperdetailed rumble feedback makes it playable for gamers who are blind. Back in the 1980s, the company even came up with a bizarre-looking hands-free controller that made the NES playable for gamers who are quadriplegic.But overall, in 2018, Nintendo is lagging far behind other gaming companies that haven’t had to leave gamers with disabilities behind in the pursuit of innovation and hardware gimmickry. If Nintendo truly believes in its mission to make gaming more accessible to everyone, it needs to work much harder.In a marginally better anticlimax than most M. Night Shyamalan plot twists, reports indicate that Amazon has decided to split its HQ2 between Long Island City, New York, and Arlington, Virginia. Mercifully, Amazon’s grand quest to use the starry-eyed idealism of mid-market politicians as a tax-evasion bargaining chip against NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio and Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam is finally over. New York is getting 25,000 more sweaty bodies on the rush hour 7 train while Arlington will have lunchtime lines at Sweetgreen that stretch into the Pentagon parking lot.Overall, the HQ2 hoopla was a brilliantly executed PR stunt that was created to keep Amazon constantly at the top of American consumers’ minds in a narrative that it squarely controls. HQ2 provided Amazon with millions of dollars of free earned media and a cover for everything from its warehouse workers peeing in bottles to a precipitously quiet 20 percent decline in its stock price. Along the way, it taught us a lot about the paradox of effectively reporting on and talking about Amazon.As the world’s largest online retailer, the current No. 3 media company in the U.S., a dominant force in cloud computing, and the single-largest corporate influence on the U.S. economy, nearly everything that Amazon does or says is “news.” But staying focused on which of Amazon’s announcements are actually newsworthy and deserving of analysis while Amazon continues dropping flying drone warehouse red herrings is near impossible.South Africa’s premier investigative journalism outfit calls itself AmaBhungane, Zulu for “dung beetles,” in a proud acknowledgment that the literal function of media is to sift through shit so that the rest of us don’t have to. Thus, the more shit you throw at journalists, the tougher the job becomes. And, arguably, no American entity outside of the White House creates more news than Amazon.On the same day that Amazon’s double HQ2 was leaked (and one day before the most important midterm election of our lifetime), the company announced free shipping during the holidays, introduced a program to hire its own drivers, and said that it would no longer host booksellers from South Korea, Hungary, and other nations. Good luck trying to analyze any of those things in-depth for a story on deadline. Thinning newsrooms lack the resources to dig every signal, so they’re forced to publish a hell of a lot of unfiltered noise.For example, the grapevine chatter last month that Amazon was “considering” opening 3,000 Go stores spurred weeks of speculation about Amazon’s impending invasion of brick-and-mortar retail stores from nearly every major American media outlet. But here’s the rub: Every company is “considering” doing anything at any given time. Faux announcements like this create an anti-competitive advantage for Amazon by taking real value out of companies. Whether or not Amazon explicitly intends to, the company blatantly manipulates the market simply by issuing press releases, and reporters are willing participants.The risk here is that when Amazon sneezes, the entire retail sector catches tuberculosis. Stitch Fix’s stock slid 20 percent upon the announcement of Amazon Scout, a service that is initially focused on home design and that, in its current iteration, actually presents no discernible threat to Stitch Fix’s business model. As any Amazon action produces an equal and opposite reaction, covering unsubstantiated Amazon rumors is dangerous business.There’s also a tendency in media to overestimate the magnitude of any statistic that has to do with Amazon. A figure like 3,000 convenience stores sounds like a paradigm-shifting amount until you consider that 7-Eleven has 11,000 stores in Thailand alone. Consistently, Amazon’s market capitalization is erroneously conflated with GDP (the correct framework would be to compare Amazon’s revenue with GDP), creating an archive of incorrect assertions that Amazon is more valuable than the aforementioned Thailand. Ultimately, this contributes to a self-fulfilling prophecy. Because Amazon is so big, any tactical action it takes is immediately declared to be game-changing. The flood of (often superficial) media coverage then takes off, essentially providing a windfall of free marketing for the everything store.As many of Amazon’s big-tech compatriots come under increased scrutiny, Amazon has a key trump card that keeps the public sentiment largely in its favor. CEO Jeff Bezos is a brilliant writer and a maestro of a storyteller, capable of seducing the tech media with his prose. You can learn more about the fundamentals of business by reading a single Amazon letter to shareholders than you do in most MBA programs. As a result, these letters are religiously quoted verbatim by reporters, allowing Bezos to directly define how his company is portrayed in the media.Combine the scale of news created by Amazon, the dearth of reporters covering retail markets, and a CEO who is the biggest walking sound bite since Yogi Berra, and you have a company whose control of its public perception is unprecedented. And as a company that can bend the global economy to its will, Amazon should be subject to far more in-depth investigation and scrutiny. The grand strategy that Bezos chooses to pursue will largely set the agenda on Wall Street and Main Street and may well impose more tangible effects on many Americans than what happens at the polls.Going beyond the scattershot headlines, here are the five Amazon stories that are really worth following, each with existential consequences for the U.S. economy and society.At its core, Amazon is simply a search engine with a gargantuan fulfillment center attached to it. While the exact number varies depending on the survey, nearly every major U.S. media outlet has gone on record stating that 50 to 55 percent of product searches begin on Amazon. The subtext is that Amazon, amid its myriad other competitive advantages, has displaced Google as the world’s most valuable search engine.However, the studies that support Amazon’s dominance in product searches omit a key detail: Not all product searches are created equal. Amazon currently owns transactional searches but has struggled to displace Google when consumers are still researching what they want to buy. (But don’t expect Amazon to live with that status quo for much longer.)In understanding who will win the future of commerce,no single metric is more important than the genesis of product search. In Forbes, former Target executive Chris Walton says that product searches will be the “leading indicators that will predict who will thrive in the new era of retail. First product search trends, not quarterly store or digital sales performance, over time, will better highlight true staying power.”Longer term, Google has an existential decision to make: Should it continue to be the conduit for other retailers to compete against Amazon, or should it invest heavily in transforming its business to become an e-commerce fulfillment engine of its own? While there are strong arguments for each, Google so far has focused on the former, a win for Fortune 500 retailers and small e-commerce shops alike. But with billions in cash on hand, Google is just an Instacart or Shopify acquisition away from rapidly altering the paradigm of e-commerce and taking on Amazon more aggressively.More than any other head-to-head clash among tech titans, the battle for product search supremacy will have far-reaching implications across how Americans spend their money. Buckle up for the great search wars to come.The reason Apple became the first company with a trillion-dollar valuation is painstakingly simple; they owned the millennium’s first trillion-dollar innovation. And Amazon is best positioned to own the next.Reports that only 2 percent of customers had made a purchase via Alexa have caused the market to sleep on the pending revolution in how we interact with our devices. At its essence, voice is a more natural medium for humans than typing, particularly on a five-inch interface, which is a learned action. The iPhone essentially has reprogrammed human behavior, driving trillions of dollars in market shifts in the process. Voice can take us back to a more natural state and cause similarly seismic shifts.The caveat is that unlike Apple and the iPhone, Amazon doesn’t have to wait for the traditional adoption curve; it can force the issue by subtly inserting voice technology into our daily lives. Amazon is beginning to embed Alexa into everyday devices, starting with the prodigal microwave. While many consumers have chosen not to invite Alexa into their homes, they may now do so unknowingly when they use Amazon to buy a simple household appliance. Across the U.S., 13 million microwaves are sold every year—a bounty of opportunity for Big Brother.Think again about product searches. In 10 years, the dominant medium for them will be instructing your Alexa or Google Home, “Buy me the best headphones for running.” In response, your device will output a highly curated result full of expert recommendations, consumer reviews, and the most competitive price. While it’s hardly the aesthetic or tactile experience that many love about shopping, voice commands could set a new standard for convenience. Without the visual interface to shop around and compare prices, the voice medium is inherently susceptible to dominance by one platform.Whether that platform is one that directly sells you goods (Amazon) or directs you to other merchants (Google) will determine the overall competitiveness of the retail ecosystem of the 2020s.By the end of the year, Amazon will have brought in $10 billion in annual advertising revenue. For context, the (thriving) New York Times makes about $200 million per year off digital ads, meaning that the retailer makes 50 times as much money selling ads as our nation’s premier newspaper.But with its advertising business, Amazon is collecting something far more valuable than just immediate cash payoff: data. The moment brands choose to sell on the Amazon marketplace, they begin handing Amazon the blueprint for how to put them out of business. Listing products on Amazon leads to a plethora of information on exactly what sells, and paying Amazon to sponsor a given product tosses kerosene on the data inferno.For example, Levi’s is one of many iconic brands aggressively ramping up its spending on Amazon. But will Americans still value Levi’s 150 years of brand equity when Amazon launches its own label of blue jeans that also make your butt look great and cost half the price? The $64,000 question is how Amazon will choose to use all this data. Will they try to move us toward a brandless society, building hundreds of thousands of AmazonBasics and Amazon Essentials? Or will Amazon decide that its long-term best interest is not to displace too many of the merchants that sell products on its platform?Despite the deluge of merchandising data it is collecting, Amazon’s ardent embrace of advertising looks a bit murky amid its overall grand strategy. It’s the classic platform play—once you control consumer attention, monetize it by any means possible. Put another way, by being obsessively customer-centric for two decades, Amazon can now sacrifice UX for new buckets of money because it’s too powerful to stop.About 17 percent of search results presented to the user on Amazon are sponsored by the brand, allowing the company to directly monetize one in six products shown to shoppers on its website. For comparison, roughly 1 to 2 percent of search results on Target, Walmart, and other large multi-brand retailers are sponsored. While this strategy adds high-margin revenue for Amazon, it is billion-dollar wise and trillion-dollar foolish. Amazon made it this far by relentlessly focusing on customers and pursuing long-term customer-centricity over short-term profit opportunity. A feed in which one in five products is an ad is a direct rebuke of that ethos.In the next decade, Amazon will transform online media by displacing Facebook as the primary aggregator of content. Amazon already has such an affinity for content that in the early 2000s, the company was paying writers to create reviews of products it didn’t even carry yet, realizing that investing in quality content would make the website a destination. In a nutshell, an e-commerce company conceptually saw the power in hosting content online before media companies did.In a similar vein, 65 percent of all affiliate links on outlets such as Wirecutter, CNET, Best Products, and BuzzFeed direct to Amazon. These are relationships that Amazon has cultivated since the genesis of these sites that effectively turn prestigious publishers into content marketers for our largest retailer. But Amazon won’t stop there. It’s only a matter of time before Amazon cuts out the middleman (Google) and decides to host publisher content about products directly on its platform. Doing so would make Amazon’s search experience far more compelling while also providing additional revenue for commerce publishers. Some publications will hold out on tying their fate to another large technology platform, but the vast majority will welcome the additional distribution.And if Amazon succeeds at hosting commerce content on its platform, why not take a crack at hosting all publisher content on Amazon? While its traffic is dwarfed by Facebook, Amazon receives more monthly visits than the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, and CNN combined. Right now, a few companies’ algorithms pick and choose exactly what consumers see, and they’re frankly doing an awful job of it. Why shouldn’t Bezos think he can do better? Five years ago, he bought a venerable newspaper that had just laid off more than 40 reporters. This week, that same paper announced 13 new reporting roles, including perhaps the most ironic job in the U.S.From a content-serving perspective, Amazon has already built the most sophisticated recommendation algorithms for commerce—IP that can be repurposed for content personalization. First teased by Nicholas Negroponte in the mid-1980s, the personalized newspaper is an idea that bubbles up as a possible savior of journalism every five years or so only to crash spectacularly. But despite its repeated failures in practice, the concept has unrealized commercial appeal if done correctly. Bytedance, a company best known for building a news aggregator and content personalization engine, is valued at $75 billion, making it the most valuable startup in the world.From a monetization perspective, pivoting to subscriptions is the name of the game in media, and Amazon is already running a successful subscription business. If anyone can convince you to pay for news, it is probably Amazon. Or it could choose to make any local newspaper free for Prime members, absorbing the losses as a pure philanthropic service to democracy. Making $1 million in profit every hour affords a lot of creative flexibility. Imagine it’s 2025, and folding local news into Amazon Prime has become the lifeline that bailed out hundreds of daily newspapers.If this all sounds hyperbolic and apocalyptic, it is. But benevolent billionaires may prove to be the best of so many bad options for supporting local and investigative journalism. No billionaire is better equipped to pick up the mantle than the man who redefined publishing, saved the Washington Post, and has generally mastered any business built around the art of the written word.It’s not every day that a paper somebody wrote in law school earns them cult-hero status. Yet, that’s precisely what happened when Lina Khan published “Amazon’s Antitrust Paradox” in the Yale Law Journal, earning her a profile in the New York Times and sending off a wave of salon chatter about the peril of modern monopolies.However, despite the rise of “hipster antitrust,” there is still no real political groundswell that Bezos should lose sleep over. Believing that Amazon should be checked with antitrust has yet to cross from Silicon Valley intelligentsia to mainstream zeitgeist. For all the compelling arguments about Amazon’s market power, nobody has yet answered a simple question: How the hell do you break up a firm that most consumers love? Just this week, Amazon effectively made Santa Claus real by announcing free delivery for holiday shoppers. That this ultimately falls on the backs of mail and delivery people, making their job hellish, is still of little concern to most shoppers.In the most significant midterm election in decades, there isn’t a single political hopeful making antitrust a core tenet of their platform. Rather than creating political pressure from both sides, the ideological alignment between Donald Trump and liberals on this has created an uneasy gridlock that makes it hard to fathom any meaningful action being taken against Amazon under the current administration.In time, this will change. When Sears ruled the retail world, the entire Sears workforce reaped the bounty of its success, greatly bolstering the middle class. The Amazon era, however, has mostly enriched an exclusive club of executives and institutional shareholders. I may be insanely naïve, but I think the political scene will normalize a bit after 2020, and someone (likely unknown to the American public at the moment) will rise on the left to combine modern progressivism with old-school Democratic flair. Imagine the personification of Bruce Springsteen’s Wrecking Ball album combining shameless support for unions with marked disdain for uber-wealth. Breaking up big tech on behalf of workers—more so than for consumers—would be an anchor point of this platform.There are signs that Amazon can no longer control its own shadow. Last month, the retailer increased its minimum wage to $15, a move widely regarded as a net benefit to society. But it comes with massive externalities and unanswered questions. What happens to the fabric of a city when it’s suddenly more lucrative to be an Amazon warehouse worker than a paramedic? Expect questions like this to enter the mainstream as Amazon swallows more and more of the country’s enterprise and becomes one of the defining political stories of the next decade.Add all this up, and there really is only one Amazon story. Amazon is a company beyond the reach of the invisible hand, unthreatened by people who buy their ink by the barrel, and is no longer held accountable to the public. Amazon is the consummate triumph of U.S. capitalism, ultimately bound to become the case study for the danger of the system’s unchecked excess.Our health is a combination of genetics and environment. Maybe someone’s genes make them vulnerable to high blood pressure, for example, but by watching what they eat — in effect, controlling their body’s environment — they can keep their numbers within normal levels.Right now, we know a lot about the genetics side of this combination, as an explosion of research has yielded incredible detail about people’s genetic profiles. We also have insight into how our internal bacterial environments — the microbiome — impact our health. But the environmental piece of the puzzle is still fuzzy. We don’t measure all the chemicals we encounter each day, from the microscopic fungi on a walk to the car exhaust on a highway.That is, most people don’t.Michael Snyder, a Stanford biologist and pioneer in genomics, does. For the past several years, Snyder has been wearing a device he invented that measures the environment around him. It’s part of his quest to learn how the environment impacts our health by studying what he calls people’s “exposomes,” or the various air particles, pollutants, viruses, and more that we come into contact with each day.In a recent paper in the journal Cell, Snyder and his colleagues describe what they’ve learned from affixing 15 people with these air-monitoring devices for up to 890 days. Each device is about the size of a big matchbox, and contains filters that trap particulates, chemicals, and microbes from the air around it. Medium talked to Snyder about the study, the exposome, and his own self-monitoring discoveries.Michael Snyder: Yes. The monitoring started when I was doing genome sequencing and other profiles — like gene expression — on myself, 8 years ago. I was using myself as a test subject to get the technology going — I didn’t know I’d be interesting! Then I got diabetes. My genome predicted it, and I got the disease over the course of this profiling. These types of measurements helped me catch the onset of the disease and gave a much more detailed picture of people’s health.With these techniques — like regular testing of blood for changes in gene expression and other readouts — we’re following a group of 109 folks now, many of them for four-and-a-half years or longer. We added wearables about five years ago to continuously monitor physiology, things like heart rate and blood oxygen levels. It helped me figure out when I got Lyme disease, actually. I was with my brother in rural Massachusetts putting up fences, and two weeks later I flew to Norway. When you fly, your blood oxygen levels will drop, but they usually recover after you land. Mine didn’t. And my heart rate was abnormally high. I got a low-grade fever and went to a doctor, who told me I had a bacterial infection. I told him I thought it was Lyme. He recommended penicillin, but I said I think I need doxycycline, which is what you take for Lyme. I measured myself when I got home, and sure enough, I was Lyme positive. It was a perfectly controlled experiment, because I’d given blood before I left and I was negative then.We want to bring big data into health; that’s the motivation. I think the way we do medicine now is very primitive, compared to what it could be. Everybody is focused on disease, but we want to focus on health and transitions to disease. We’ve written algorithms based on the data we’ve collected, and we now think we tell can when you get sick before you realize it, because your heart rate goes up. We’ve shown that on myself and three other people. We’re now trying to set up a 1,000-person study to learn more.That area has been a big hole. We know you’re affected by your genes and your environment, but nobody is capturing the environment individually. Nobody carries around something on their sleeve to monitor their exposure.We took a standard high-end air monitor and re-engineered it. The monitor has a pump that sucks up about one-fifteenth of the air you breathe. We put a submicron filter on the monitor to collect all the particulates in the air. Under that we have a cartridge with a chemical absorbent. We take that filter and elute off the particulates, and sequence, incredibly deeply, the DNA and RNA that’s there. Then we match it up against a custom database with 40,000 species of microorganisms, viruses, plants, and animals. We can see exactly what you’re getting exposed to from the biological side. Then from the chemical absorbent, we elute that off and run it through a mass spectrometer. We see all the chemical structures.The study has just over two years of data on the biologicals; the chemicals we did for only a few months, but nonetheless we learned a ton.The first thing we learned is the exposome is vast. There were more than 2,000 species, from bacteria to my pet guinea pig, registered during my own two years of profiling. Even the guy or gal who wore it for three months for the study was exposed to over 1,000 species. There were close to 3,000 chemical features detected in the whole study.Second is that the exposome is dynamic. It varies a lot. How much of the variation is regional or seasonal? For the part we could figure out, location is the number one factor, especially for the chemicals. The time of year is another important factor. We sampled four people living in the Bay Area — me, and people in Sunnyvale, Redwood City, and San Francisco. We profiled them over the same month, and everybody’s different. The person in San Francisco had sewer sludge bacteria in their samples; there are definitely parts of San Francisco that don’t smell so good. Every time I go to Monterey, I get a fungal exposure. Location really matters.DEET is everywhere, which surprised me; it was in all the samples. There’s a few carcinogens, like the solvent diethylene glycol. A limitation of our study is we don’t know the absolute amounts of exposures; we know relative amounts. That’s something we are working on to pin down. This was really just a survey to see generally what we are exposed to.Right, that was interesting. Pyridine is a nasty chemical. But you can argue this certain ways. If you are very allergic to fungi, which some people are, maybe for them it’s good to have pyridine, although that is a different potentially detrimental exposure.This is not in the paper, but there’s some correlation with health. We’re still trying to sort this all out.Your eosinophils — a type of white blood cell — are actually a measure of allergic response. We can correlate my eosinophils with what exposures are out there. I thought I was probably most allergic to pine, but the correlation was actually better with eucalyptus. One in five Americans has allergies or asthma. It’s useful to know what triggers this.In California, I’m in eucalyptus heaven! I’m not going to cut down a eucalyptus tree, although if a tree ever had to go in my yard that would be the first one to go. Chemical exposures you could try to track and get rid of.We’re going to get these devices on more people — we will try to get inexpensive devices — just to get this out there so lots of people can do this. Ultimately, we have to take samples and analyze them offline. That will be true for a while. But once we figure out what might be most impactful on people’s health, then we’ll try to set up real-time personal monitors for those things.I would argue this is the first map of the human exposome, like the first genome map. We see what’s there, and then we try to understand how it affects your health. As we get more devices out, we will be able to make more associations between allergies and exposures. It would take long-term monitoring to understand the effects of toxins. But I do think we need that data.Finding treatments for Alzheimer’s disease is simultaneously one of the most pressing and difficult tasks in medicine today. Between 2000 and 2015, the number of deaths resulting from Alzheimer’s has shot up by 123 percent. Today, around one in 10 people over age 65 have the disease. The drugs available for Alzheimer’s aim to ease symptoms of the disease, but they cannot slow or reverse its progression. The last time a new medication was approved for Alzheimer’s was 15 years ago.Over the course of Alzheimer’s progression, sticky deposits of protein structures called plaques and tangles build up in the brain and damage and kill nerve cells. Proteins called amyloid-β and tau comprise these plaques and tangles and function improperly in Alzheimer’s sufferers. Drugs to combat Alzheimer’s often try to target these proteins.But in recent years, Alzheimer’s drugs in clinical testing have largely failed to produce adequate results. There are, however, a handful of promising options still in the running. David Geldmacher, a neurologist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, is working on a phase three clinical trial of a drug called aducanumab, which is sponsored by the biotech company Biogen. Medium spoke to Geldmacher about the challenges of drug discovery for Alzheimer’s disease and what keeps him optimistic for the future.David Geldmacher: One of the biggest issues in coming up with effective therapies for Alzheimer’s disease is that we really don’t know critical elements [underlying] the mechanism [of the disease] in most people with the illness.We know 1 or 2 percent of Alzheimer’s cases are clearly inherited. We tend to see, in those individuals, that the illness begins in the mid-forties. Because those mechanisms are so easily understood in the genetically determined cases, that’s what we’ve been able to use in animal models.A lot of work in Alzheimer’s disease is based in animal models with these human genes that cause Alzheimer’s. And things that worked well in animals have not turned out to work well in people. What we have learned, however, is that the process of Alzheimer’s disease begins in the brain years, probably decades, before the first symptoms emerge. In many cases, we’ve been trying to treat the illness too late in its course.What we’ve done in this particular study is use an antibody that has a slightly different configuration that targets a different part of the amyloid [compound] than some of the past treatments have targeted. But, more importantly, we are focusing on the disease very early on, when people have only mild cognitive symptoms. That means there has been less overall damage to the brain, and there’s a greater opportunity to prevent further cell death or rescue cells that have been made sick by the amyloid but not killed by them.The study is underway, so there are no findings that are reportable at this point. In a prior study, which was reported in Nature in 2016, the aducanumab antibody showed that it could clearly reduce the amount of amyloid plaques in the brains of people with Alzheimer’s disease. PET scans were done before treatment was administered and then at the end of treatment. People who received the aducanumab had a reduction in the amyloid burden in their brain. People who received the placebo during the same trial actually had an increased amyloid burden.This demonstrated that the agent is biologically active on the target we want it to be active on. The other thing noted in that trial was that patients on the highest dose of the medication showed some slowing of the progression of illness. This is one of the first studies where that’s been so clearly evident.Interestingly, at six months into the study, the doses did not distinguish themselves, so treatment was not clearly different from placebo. But at 12 months, the difference emerged. That tells us that the process by which the antibody is effective is a gradual one.That’s correct. One of the phrases we use in the field to characterize this type of treatment is a disease-modifying treatment rather than a symptom-modifying treatment. Since the disease is a chronic condition, we would have to assume that it’s going to require ongoing longer-term therapy. We don’t know whether that means lifelong or not. That’s research that still needs to be conducted.The biological agents, like aducanumab and BAN2401 [another molecule under development by Biogen], allow us to see proof of concept. They allow us to see that perhaps removing amyloid from the brain or preventing its accumulation is a valid approach. The next step would be to come up with a more easily produced, more easily administered, less expensive means of doing the same thing. So I view the biological situation as not necessarily the long-term solution for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease, but as opening the door to what future successes might look like.There is a whole second line of antibody therapies for Alzheimer’s that aren’t targeting the amyloid-β protein; rather, they’re targeting the tau protein, which is a critical factor in the neurofibrillary tangle. Several companies are working on anti-tau antibody therapies. Those are very early in development, but if they are successful, they may also open the doors.The market for Alzheimer’s therapies is huge, both in the United States and worldwide. So there’s an opportunity for big pharma companies to develop a very large treatment base, especially for treatments that might be more along the lines of prevention rather than intervention.There’s still a very active community of researchers pursuing new treatments, or more effective ones, for Alzheimer’s disease. Nonetheless, I do feel a great sense of responsibility. If you think about specialists like myself — people who focus on cognitive disorders or degenerative disorders — there are very few of us relative to, say, Parkinson’s specialists or multiple sclerosis specialists.So there is a lot of responsibility in trying to come up with therapeutics for an illness like Alzheimer’s, especially since the projections are that it’s going to dramatically increase in numbers over the course of the next 20 to 30 years. Epidemiological studies suggest that between 2000 and 2050, the number of Alzheimer’s cases in the United States is going to triple, approaching 15 to 20 million people with the illness. Life expectancy has also been progressively increasing, and since Alzheimer’s disease is an age-related disease, the more older people you have, the more cases of Alzheimer’s disease you’re going to experience.She wants to garden, she has studied the concept of love, and she dreams of pizza. BINA48, as you might guess from her name, is not a human, but a robot. There’s something else that makes BINA48 truly distinct, and it has nothing to do with her predilections for human ephemera. Of the small collection of robo-celebrities making the late-night talk show rounds, BINA48 is the only black-presenting one of the bunch. And as social robots continue to creep into the mainstream, her presence isn’t just increasingly necessary — it’s potentially the linchpin to the development of a more diverse society of robots.Creating the world’s first and only black humanoid robot was not the impetus for BINA48’s inception. A bodyless bust with a lifelike head and shoulders, BINA48 was manufactured by Hanson Robotics and is owned and operated by the Terasem Movement Foundation, an organization researching the possibility of uploading one’s likeness onto “consciousness software” for afterlife preservation. Designed as a research project, BINA48 gets her personality, appearance, and namesake from Bina Rothblatt, a real human and co-founder of the Terasem Movement, who uploaded hundreds of hours’ worth of her memories, thoughts, and beliefs to give BINA48 her foundation. In other words, the robot’s skin color was happenstance.“The reason BINA48 ended up being African-American is that she’s based on an African-American woman,” says Bruce Duncan, managing director of Terasem. “We were not actually trying to make BINA48 a spokesperson for all black people.”Regardless, BINA48 has become an emblem of the issue of representation in A.I., opening up the question of who will be replicated in robot form, and why?It is well-documented that A.I. programs of all stripes inherit the gender and racial biases of their creators on an algorithmic level, turning well-meaning machines into accidental agents of discrimination. But it turns out we also inflict our biases onto robots. A recent study led by Christoph Bartneck, a professor at the Human Interface Technology Lab at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand, found that not only are the majority of home robots designed with white plastic, but we also actually have a bias against the ones that are coated in black plastic. The findings were based on a shooter bias test, in which participants were asked to perceive threat level based on a split-second image of various black and white people, with robots thrown into the mix. Black robots that posed no threat were shot more than white ones.“The only thing that would motivate their bias [against the robots] would be that they would have transferred their already existing racial bias to, let’s say, African-Americans, onto the robots,” Bartneck told Medium. “That’s the only plausible explanation.”These types of biases also turn up when it comes to gender. In Singapore, a study of 198 young adults found that respondents felt more comfortable with the idea of a security robot gendered male and a housecleaning robot gendered female. And already, our widespread A.I. assistants, like Siri and Alexa, have been given female personas.Social robots like BINA48, which are designed to one day be our companions and helpers, are not only typically female but also tend to reinforce gender and racial stereotypes: Sophia — arguably the most famous social robot — was designed with the “classic beauty” of Audrey Hepburn in mind, according to her creators at Hanson Robots; Erica, a Japanese robot created by Hiroshi Ishiguro Laboratories, has been called “the most beautiful robot in the world” and sports a doll-like physique and style; and Jia Jia, developed at the University of Science and Technology of China, was inspired by an old story about a fairy who surprises her master with a clean home and hot meals. Jia Jia is also dressed in Han-style clothing, a growing fashion movement in China based on nationalist ideologies.Unlike Sophia, Erica and Jia Jia are not white, but they still conform to their culture’s majority race. And though a reality where social robots act as our daily companions is far off, Bartneck argues that if the field doesn’t incorporate diversity now, it will suffer the same issues that established industries are currently struggling to correct.“We see ourselves in these robots,” he says.BINA48 is leading the charge in this regard, and she is joined by a few other rebel robots. Alter, developed by roboticists Hiroshi Ishiguro and Takashi Ikegami of Japan, appears to be gender neutral, with a silicone face and arms and exposed body. Unlike Ishiguro’s other robots (including Erica), Alter was designed with a minimal humanistic appearance and persona in order to focus on the movement of its mechanical body. Then there’s Matsuko-roid, Japan’s cross-dressing TV show host robot based on human TV personality Matsuko Deluxe.Like BINA48, the elements that make Alter and Matsuko-roid diverse and unique were not the elements that drove their creation. Instead, their gender-nonconforming personas were happenstance, much like the racial biases built into Google’s image-recognition algorithm that identified African-Americans as “gorillas” were happenstance. And that’s the problem: In the absence of a conscious decision to fight bias, bias creeps in.“Instead of leaving this to some sort of randomness, why don’t you just take control and steer it in the right direction?” Bartneck says. “That is a responsibility that robotic developers have to pick up and work on.”Though BINA48 was never meant to be a spokesperson for identity politics, her creators are embracing the fact that she has become just that. The android started her digital life knowing very little of the racial history she inadvertently found herself in. (When asked by artist and activist Stephanie Dinkins, who is working on a project stemming from her conversations with BINA48, if she had experienced racism, BINA48 somewhat nonsensically replied, “I actually didn’t have it.”) Now, however, the real Bina is uploading more information about her history as a black woman onto BINA48, and Duncan, the managing director at Terasem, is working with Dinkins and prominent black celebrities, including Whoopi Goldberg and Morgan Freeman, to support the development of her identity.“When we’re building the architecture of our A.I. future, this is the time to make sure it’s healthy and representative and diverse,” Duncan says. “Not representing the diversity that we are as a species is like saving only four plants out of a rainforest. We’re doing a huge injustice to our own health and well-being if we don’t try to preserve the diversity in the world around us.”Going to Mars will change us — and not just in a touchy-feely, metaphysical way.Over time, we should expect a fair bit of evolutionary divergence between Mars settlers and the human population on Earth, according to Rice University biologist Scott Solomon, who examined this possibility in his 2016 book Future Humans: Inside the Science of Our Continuing Evolution. That divergence will start unspooling at the outset, thanks to something called “the founder effect.” No matter how or when it happens, the Red Planet will be settled by a relatively small group of people who are not perfectly representative of the entire human population. For example, it’s a pretty safe bet that Mars pioneers will be atypically adventurous and risk-tolerant. That means, Muskton — the odds are decent that the first Red Planet burg will be named after SpaceX’s CEO — will likely feature more rock-climbing gyms and bordellos per capita than cities here on Earth.And those initial differences will snowball, because Mars and Earth are very different worlds. The Red Planet is much smaller; the force of gravity on its surface is just 38 percent of the pull we feel here on Earth. Mars also lacks a global magnetic field, a thick atmosphere (though we could remedy that with terraforming), and a protective ozone layer. Mars gets hammered a lot harder than we do by space radiation — UV light and charged particles from the sun, as well as super-energetic cosmic rays zooming in from outside the solar system.This damaging radiation could cause higher mutation rates in the DNA of Mars settlers, Solomon said. Mutations increase genetic variability, so evolution may proceed faster on the Red Planet than it does here on Earth. What sorts of changes could we see over there? Well, for one thing, natural selection might adjust skin tone on the Red Planet, to help settlers cope with that serious radiation load. (Even if they live in modified caves or lava tubes, as seems likely, the pioneers will still have to spend some time on the surface to tend to their crops and attend spring equinox chili cook-offs, for example.) This may lead to dark skin due to increased production of melanin, just as we see among some peoples here on Earth. But other pigments could potentially be pressed into service as well, including carotenoids, the molecules that give real carrots — as opposed to those purple artisanal weirdos — their color, according to Solomon.Mars settlers may also eventually sport thicker bones than their ancestors, Solomon said. That’s because, as research on astronauts in low-Earth orbit has shown, bones become less dense and more brittle in low-gravity conditions. So, Red Planet pioneers with abnormally stout skeletons may do abnormally well, throwing down monster dunk after monster dunk in games of Marsketball while their owned opponents roll around in the dirt clutching their broken femurs and moaning. And Marsketball would be awesome, by the way. If you kept the hoop at the standard 10 feet, all but the most sessile among us could dunk, since you can jump about 2.5 times higher on Mars than you can here on Earth.And Martian colonists may not be plagued by plagues. The long cruise to the Red Planet could serve as a quarantine, keeping nasty germs from getting a foothold in the settlement, according to Solomon. Muskton probably wouldn’t have to worry about the next Ebola or West Nile emerging from the Martian wilds, which appear to be free of viruses and bacteria, let alone any chimps, birds, mosquitoes, or bats to incubate or transmit them. So, if the settlers left their mammal friends at home — the ones we like to eat, as well as the ones whose bellies we like to rub and ears we like to tousle — they could conceivably banish infectious disease to the memory hole. (The pioneers could go vegan, or eat bugs rather than cows and pigs. Insects are much further removed from us evolutionarily and therefore less likely to pass pathogens.) The settlers’ immune systems might then wither like a snipped umbilical cord, eventually atrophying into vestigiality: White blood cells could be the new tailbones.“If that were to happen, if, somehow, a disease were to be introduced to Mars, it would be completely devastating,” Solomon said. “That would set up a situation where any contact between Earth and Mars would be extremely dangerous. Steps might have to be taken to basically eliminate any chance of having contact. Even if there are shipments going back and forth, even if there are people going from Earth to Mars, perhaps they don’t ever come into contact with one another.”This scenario would lead to a cessation of gene flow between Earth humans and Mars humans, and speciation could soon follow.How soon?“I hate to ever put numbers on it, because it’s still such a speculative scenario,” Solomon said. “But you’d be talking about at least several hundred to, possibly, several thousand generations.”This putative outcome doesn’t seem to jibe with our experiences here on Earth, where small bands of pioneers have repeatedly settled new lands without ever diverging into new species of hominid. For example, Native Americans and aboriginal Australians remain in the Homo sapiens fold despite having lived in relative isolation on their newfound continents for about 15,000 and 50,000 years, respectively. But we can take this comparison only so far: North America and Australia are still part of familiar, old Earth, so the environment wasn’t pushing those long-ago explorers to diverge nearly as powerfully as harsh, weird Mars will.Solomon cautioned that nobody can predict how evolution will proceed in the future. Indeed, some folks have a different take on our relationship with those future inhabitants of Muskton. For example, Mars Society president Robert Zubrin thinks the settlers will develop one or more unique Martian cultures but will not radiate into a new species; they’ll just be too close to Earth, with too much contact. He does think this will happen with interstellar settlers, however, partly because of the inevitable cultural differences that will arise.“We’re going to have the power, in principle, to control our evolution, to genetically engineer and influence our children,” Zubrin said. “If we have established ourselves in new star systems, in some places, people will probably say, ‘That’s a great idea; let’s do that.’ In others, they’ll say, ‘Oh, that’s immoral. We should not do that.’ So, whether they do it or don’t do it, it’s going to cause divergence.”Such divergence, he said, could lead to a Star Trek–like panoply of humanoids that differ from each other in just a few trifling respects, such as the color and scaliness of their skin or the number and size of the bumpy ridges on their foreheads. You know, whatever look becomes fashionable on those deep-space outposts, so far from the dominant, original culture and its homogenization machine. Hopefully hipster, skinny jeans won’t make it all the way out to GJ 273b.Of course, the lack of gene mixing among colonists and their forebears on Earth would be an even bigger factor in our species’ interstellar radiation — if there are still any genes around to be mixed. We may have advanced to cyborg/sublimated consciousness form by the time we start moving out among the stars.I have a huge pimple on my cheek when I try Olay’s skin analysis app, Skin Advisor. The app directs me to take a selfie and answer a few questions, like what worries me most about my skin — wrinkles or acne, for example — and what kinds of products I use on a daily basis.I’m prepared for the obvious news: I’m having a breakout. But within a few seconds, the app alerts me to an issue I didn’t know I had. According to Skin Advisor, my problem area is around my mouth, likely because of my smile lines, and I’m directed to buy a $22 anti-aging cream.This is curious, since TroveSkin, the Indonesia-based artificial intelligence app I tried before this one, analyzed my selfie and concluded that my biggest skin problem was texture, and that I should be using exfoliating, anti-aging, and brightening products.Skin Advisor and TroveSkin are two of about a dozen apps from startups and veteran skin care companies that use artificial intelligence (A.I.) to spot your skin woes, provide personalized product recommendations, and track your skin over time. In 2018, Neutrogena released a device and app package called Skin360, which uses a magnifying lens attached to your smartphone to deliver product suggestions. Startup Proven recently launched a personalized skin care line that draws from medical journals and reviews to suggest products based on your responses to an online assessment.The global cosmetics market is estimated to grow to $805 billion by 2023, with skin care accounting for the largest share. Between drugstores, online retailers, and beauty stores, it’s hard to know what you really need or want. Do I have blackheads or redness? Should I try to brighten my skin or start an anti-aging regimen? How do I make my skin look “dewy,” whatever that means? Hyperpersonalization using A.I.-driven technology has caught on in consumer products (think Google Home, Netflix, and smartphone facial recognition), so it makes sense that businesses see customizing your skin care routine as a logical application.Diana de la Iglesia Jiménez, an A.I. and computer engineering expert at the Bioinformatics Unit of the Spanish National Cancer Research Centre, a public research center, says the technology used in skin care apps is the same machine-learning technology used in other industries. “They collect data about you and predict your current needs or the potential features of your ‘ideal’ product,” she says, adding that she understands the technology’s appeal. “If these products are capable of analyzing your specific needs and features, they could bring you a solution more adapted to your real needs.”TroveSkin, for example, encourages you to take a daily selfie so you can follow how your skin is changing over time. I could log in throughout the day to let the app know how I was feeling, how long I slept, how much I exercised, and what I ate throughout the day.Some apps also guess your age depending on your skin’s appearance—what’s known as your “skin age”—with varying degrees of accuracy. TroveSkin, the first app I tried, guessed my age was 23, underestimating it by six years. When I used my laptop camera, Olay’s Skin Advisor correctly guessed I was 29. But when I tested it again using the app on my smartphone, it guessed I was 35.Proven co-founders Ming Zhao and Amy Yuan developed their business in response to their own skin troubles. Before starting Proven, Zhao was working 16-hour days at a private equity job in Hong Kong and “using all kinds of different miracle-promising skin care products, and I felt like nothing made a dent,” she says. “Eventually, someone recommended I see a skin guru to make personalized skin care for me. That was the only time I saw results.”When Zhao met Yuan, a computational physicist, at Stanford University, the duo started building a deep-learning skin care database using scientific studies and consumer testimonials. It now includes more than 8 million consumer reviews, 100,000 skin care products, 20,000 ingredients, and 4,000 scientific journals.Here’s how it works: Customers answer a list of questions about their skin concerns, how their skin reacts to products, and even what they eat. After you complete the quiz, Proven’s machine-learning algorithms scan the database to spit out information about your living environment and lifestyle and how they affect your skin and to match you with ingredients. Zhao says the company partnered with a dermatologist to work on the questionnaire and create the formulations it sells.When I tried the Proven app, I was told I’m not drinking enough water, which is leading to dehydration. Since I live in Dallas-Fort Worth, which has “unhealthy air quality,” Proven told me I’m exposed to pollution particles that cause wrinkles and age spots.To address these environmental factors along with my acne-prone, oily skin and hyperpigmentation, Proven suggested a customized three-product routine that includes ingredients like sulfur (to deal with acne), hyaluronic acid (to retain moisture), and mandelic acid (to exfoliate the skin for a smoother, clearer appearance). The three products cost $195 for a two-month supply.“Personalization is not just a trend. It’s going to be the future of all consumer products,” Zhao tells me. “With Proven, our products are tailored to you [based on] genetics, skin concerns, and environmental factors.”I ask dermatologist Fayne Frey if personalization apps are the future of skin care. Her response is a resounding no. “Apps have little if any clinical skill other than programmed, one-size-fits-all algorithms,” she says.Frey takes issue with some of the questions asked by Proven. Most consumers probably don’t know what’s wrong with their skin or how to answer questions about their level of stress, which is subjective, she says.Frey’s other issue with Proven, Skin360, and similar apps is that they lead consumers to purchase the company’s own products. The tech, according to Frey, is more about marketing than about giving people science-backed recommendations — the latter of which could actually be helpful. It’s a “market that’s feeding on people’s insecurity,” she says.Frey is attempting to create a nonbiased database herself. In 2014, she launched the website and product selector FryFace. Based on a few questions, consumers can find skin care options. She doesn’t make any money from the site and adds products manually. In her opinion, there are plenty of products already on the market that work just fine.Dermatologist Dee Anna Glaser, of St. Louis University, says that if A.I. apps get people thinking about taking better care of their skin, that’s not a bad thing. Unfortunately, A.I.-backed skin care apps are not cheap. For $195, Proven’s customized kit includes one cleanser, one sunscreen, and one night cream. It costs $50 to get Neutrogena’s Skin360 app and the magnifying lens required to scan your skin. Olay’s Skin Advisor appears to be one of the few free-to-use A.I.-driven apps currently available.“All of these A.I. devices lead you to buy some kind of skin care. And if it’s working, that’s great,” Glaser says. “But what I see at my practice is that patients spend hundreds of dollars [on products that don’t work], and then they’ve delayed the opportunity to get better. People with true skin problems would be better served more quickly, accurately, and less expensively” if they went to see a dermatologist.A.I. expert de la Iglesia says there’s another issue: If these apps collect low-quality data (an image that’s too blurry, a question that wasn’t answered properly, or product reviews that are fake), a machine-learning algorithm does not work properly. “I think that the collected data could be of low quality, and so [could] the predictions,” de la Iglesia says.A.I. is making an impact, however, on the detection of skin diseases. Glaser says there are already devices in dermatology offices that use A.I. technology to help doctors detect skin cancer and determine whether a biopsy is needed. As the technology becomes more accurate, it might even be applicable for consumer use.While these apps may provide a good starting point for people who are new to skin care, I wouldn’t use them again unless I was looking to buy a product from the brands that offer them (say, I needed help choosing between different Olay moisturizers). The aim to help consumers select products that are more likely to fix their skin problems is a lofty goal, but in my many years of experimenting, I’ve found which ingredients work for me and which ones don’t — and I’m not sure that an app can be better at selecting products than I am.When my parents told me we were moving to America, I pictured a carousel. Special, beguiling; a place where nothing bad ever happened. In my head, it was like a still photograph of something in motion. The lights were a warm streak of yellow, and the painted horses looked like they were dancing. I was nearly six, and the idea of flying across the world to a place like that was thrilling.This was the spirited creation of a child, sure, but one that had roots somewhere. I don’t know exactly where it came from, but I suspect that the allure of this country — the mythical American dream — is so relentlessly propagated that it managed to worm its way into the unvarnished brain of a small child. It remained fixed in my mind for a long time. Mostly, I leaned on it when my friends disparaged the country they were born in. “You’re lucky,” I used to insist. “People give up everything to make it to America.”And then I grew up, and the carousel broke down. It happened in fits, punctuated by national crises and a rising awareness of my own privilege here and all it afforded me and the position of others relative to me. It happened when I read books and essays, when I made friends, when I witnessed cruelty and did nothing to help. It happened as I filled in the lines of my own personhood, and I began to question what, exactly, personhood meant here in America and who was allowed to have it.The weight of how much the ideal had disintegrated settled itself between my shoulder blades on the day I became an American. My naturalization ceremony — held this past October, on a Friday too warm for the bright-red coat I wore — was ostensibly a salute to more than 140 immigrants. It was also an ominous celebration of nationalistic assimilation and vaguely funereal: I pledged my loyalty to America and left behind the place I came from. There would be no more slipping out of my Americanness when it suited me. The country’s sins were now indistinguishable from my own.Perversely, becoming a citizen presented me with a sense of security. That was one of the reasons I chose this moment in time to become a citizen, after all — not out of some patriotic desire to submerge myself in the American swamp, but because the swamp offered more protection than the shore.People often seem disappointed by this explanation. “That’s why you’re doing this now?” they’d ask, hoping, perhaps, that I was motivated by a sense of civic duty, or that I had gone crazy. But the simple answer, and the one I was loath to give, was that I wanted to feel safe. I wanted proof that I belonged here. I no longer wanted to be able to slip out of my Americanness — not because I considered it to be part of me, but because I didn’t want someone else to decide when it would happen next. Before I took this step, unease was at a constant simmer beneath the surface. My life was not entirely within my control; someone out there could make it hell if they wanted to.And yet the truth is that, growing up, I was always privileged enough to not worry about becoming an American citizen. It never felt like a necessity, and my parents waited almost as long as I did. We moved here because my father got a good job, which meant our immigration status was always relatively safe, and because I was a kid, my parents jumped through all the hoops for me. Until now, I never had to reckon with any of this.It also became a point of secret, mulish pride. I didn’t want to give in. Doing so felt like letting go of some essential part of me — the part that wasn’t from here, that never felt wholly at home, that had always considered herself stuck between two worlds. Citizenship seemed like it would be a fundamental, irreparable transformation of my identity. Maybe I would welcome that someday, but I wanted to be sure about it. Instead, I did it because I felt like I had no other choice. I did it so that if I ever moved away, I had a way back. I did it out of a vague sense of unease, which is, bitterly, the most perfectly American thing of all.It’s also ludicrous. I’m white. My accent is so neutral that I could be a virtual assistant. I’m fluent in Americana. My path to citizenship didn’t involve fleeing violence or persecution. I didn’t risk my life or my family’s life. I haven’t lived in fear of deportation. I don’t get stopped at airports, and on the street, and in my home, and asked why I’m here. I blend in. And so it feels fraudulent to say that I want to be safe. It feels callous to boil down the prodigious step of becoming a citizen to flinty practicality and curdled cynicism when other people give everything they have to make it through a naturalization ceremony.A few weeks ago, a letter arrived in the mail from a county official — the same man who presided over my ceremony — congratulating me on becoming a citizen. He also took pains to castigate those who “take shortcuts,” as if that was a decision born out of laziness and duplicity rather than circumstance and necessity. I wanted to set the letter on fire. I know citizenship isn’t meaningless. I know it’s not just an empty token of appreciation from Uncle Sam. But it’s difficult to reconcile the practiced reverence with which it is treated with the feeling that I got lucky — because of where I came from, because of what I look like, because of what I sound like.These days, I try to remember the carousel. I try to parse what it meant to me and why it stayed with me for so long, even after it became clear that it was nothing more than a fantasy. I lean on what it represented — opportunity, promise, equity — and choose to see that in the things around me. There’s a boy in a tuxedo beaming in front of a massive American flag as someone in his family becomes a citizen. There are people who organize, agitate, and protest. There are candidates running for office who reject the notion of cruelty as the bedrock of policy. There’s the thrill I felt after voting today for the very first time in my life.I want to think about these things. Maybe that’s the migrant mentality: a conscious choice to believe that your new home is better. The sting of leaving the old one behind would be too much to bear otherwise.But then I come back to the catastrophes, recent and older, all with different shapes but the same rotten filling. Brett Kavanaugh, Pittsburgh, Charlottesville, Iraq, September 2008, Ferguson, November 2016. The horrific absurdity of listening to a tall man in a gray suit drone on about how immigrants reflect American values while the current administration punishes and humiliates immigrants of color at every turn. I get angry at myself for believing, again and again, in a myth.I wonder sometimes if this is just what it means to be American, this back-and-forth, this tension between what you hope for and what you know, deep down, to be true. Maybe it gets easier once you learn to walk the tightrope between these two poles, without flailing, without letting one or the other subsume you. I hope so.An estimated 6 million Americans couldn’t vote on Tuesday because they were convicted felons. About half of those people had finished their sentences and left prison. They still weren’t allowed to vote. Roughly half of those Americans — about 1.5 million — live in Florida.Disenfranchisement in the United States has taken on many forms in recent years: voter ID laws and restrictions on early voting are just two examples. But restricting the voting rights of felons is one of the oldest practices on the books. And nowhere has it been more widespread than in Florida, possibly the one state where the phrase “every vote counts” consistently rings true. (See: Bush v. Gore, 2000; Obama v. Romney, 2012; Trump v. Clinton, 2016; Scott v. Nelson, 2018.)But Florida’s ex-felons got a reprieve on Tuesday. Almost two-thirds of residents who could and did vote on Nov. 6 elected to restore voting rights for those who couldn’t. It was one of the most far-reaching statewide results in this year’s midterms, one that could have lasting effects on how future elections play out in this pivotal state.“It’s a really important milestone just in the sheer number of people who will be re-enfranchised,” says Marc Meredith, an associate professor of political science at the University of Pennsylvania who studies felon voting rights.A dozen states deny voting rights to some or all convicts, even after they’ve fulfilled their prison, parole, or probation sentences, according to a 2016 report by The Sentencing Project, a non-profit criminal justice advocacy group. But Florida was by far the most prominent offender. Its disenfranchised felon population was the country’s largest, thanks to the state’s sizable number of prisoners and its relatively harsh sentencing guidelines.“Florida was the elephant in the room,” says Christopher Uggen, a University of Minnesota sociologist and a co-author of Locked Out: Felon Disenfranchisement and American Democracy.While the state has one of the biggest prison populations in the U.S., it has also convicted a disproportionate number of people of color. White people still make up the largest share of felons in Florida. But among African-Americans in the state, 20 percent have been disenfranchised because of a felony conviction compared with 9.2 percent of the overall population.Florida’s voting restrictions stem from some of the darker shadows of the Reconstruction Era, when Southern states often looked for ways to suppress black voters. In 1868, Florida’s Constitution took away felons’ right to vote, even making a crime like petty larceny a felony.Over the last couple decades, felons have unsuccessfully used class-action lawsuits to try to change the law in the court system. In 2007, Gov. Charlie Crist, then a Republican now a Democrat, revised the state’s clemency process and restored more than 150,000 residents’ voting rights. But his successor, Republican Rick Scott, dialed back that process. Under Scott’s administration, only 3,200 saw their voting rights restored.That left few options for Florida’s ex-felons other than going directly to the enfranchised themselves. “It was a tremendous victory,” Uggen says, especially for people “who had older criminal records that may date from the ’70s, ’80s, and ’90s who were really shut out of the electorate.”The result is a historic win for civil rights activists working to reform the criminal justice system, one that’s often stacked against people of color. But what does it mean for Florida’s future elections?For the last two decades, it seemed impossible to hold an election without Florida’s races being decided by the slimmest of margins. Look at Tuesday’s race for the U.S. Senate between Democrat Bill Nelson and Republican Rick Scott. As of Wednesday, the difference in the race was just 30,000 votes. Adding 1.5 million ex-felons to the rolls has the potential to sway those kinds of close races. But whether that happens will ultimately depend on two questions: Which way would they lean politically? And will they vote?Uggen estimates that 80 to 90 percent of Florida’s black ex-felons likely lean Democratic based on how similar populations have voted in other states and that the remaining 75 percent of the total ex-felon population breaks down evenly between Democratic and Republican voters. Uggen points to one study he conducted with NYU sociologist Jeffrey Manza, which estimated that Florida’s ex-felons would likely have voted for Democrat Al Gore over Republican George W. Bush in the 2000 presidential election by a margin of at least two to one, easily making up the 537-vote difference and giving Gore the state, and ultimately, the White House.Another study Uggen points to is a national survey from 2002, which found that “Democratic candidates would have received about 7 out of every 10 votes cast by the felons and ex-felons in 14 of the last 15 U.S. Senate election years.”“I wouldn’t say it’s a big victory for the Democratic party or portray it in partisan terms, but on balance, I think the outcome [of the ballot measure] will likely tilt Democratic to some degree,” Uggen says.The more pressing question might be whether ex-felons will vote at all. According to studies by the University of Pennsylvania’s Meredith and Harvard PhD candidate Michael Morse, in six other states that recently relaxed their voting rights laws, ex-felon turnout ranged from just 8 percent to 14 percent.Uggen, however, says he believes turnout could be higher in Florida because so many ex-felons have been integrated into society over decades and are more invested in their communities than newly released prisoners.Assuming turnout numbers and political preference follows similar patterns, Uggen says it’s reasonable to believe that if ex-felons had voted this week, they would have swayed the election toward Nelson, the Democratic incumbent. They could even have had an effect on the governor’s race, which Republican Ron DeSantis led over Democrat Andrew Gillum by 51,000 votes, as of Wednesday.Similarly, Meredith and Morse estimate that of the 1.5 million Floridians now eligible to vote, an estimated 102,000 would vote for Democrats, 54,000 would vote for Republicans, and 40,000 could go either away. The others likely wouldn’t vote.“It is those races that are so close that there could be a recount,” Meredith says. “That’s where re-enfranchisement could matter.”Ring, an Amazon-owned smart doorbell company, wants to help you and your neighbors gossip about “suspicious activity” on your street with a standalone app called Neighbors. The app, which was introduced in May, encourages people to bring the surveillance state home by uploading video clips and publishing reports about neighborhood activities, which are then broadcast to other users and participating police departments.Ring markets Neighbors as a modern version of an old-school neighborhood watch program, encouraging communities to band together to protect one another and combat crime. In a commercial for Neighbors, a pair of greasy would-be package thieves are deterred from their crime after realizing video of them is being broadcast throughout the neighborhood. No cops are called, but a man walking his beagle, who has been alerted to their presence through the Neighbors app, watches the thwarted thieves drive their clunker out of the neighborhood, crime averted.Two things make Neighbors different than similar services like Nextdoor. First is the exclusive focus on crime. Neighbors prohibits posts that aren’t about crime and safety, which means that if you have nothing suspicious to post about, you’re not welcome to post at all. Second is the direct connection Neighbors forges with police. Not only will you and your neighbors be watching your streets through the app — so will the cops. Police departments can join Neighbors, view publicly uploaded videos, and request additional data from Ring for areas “where an incident may have occurred.” Just like traditional neighborhood watch programs, Neighbors will give cops extra eyes on the streets, but instead of reports from block captains, police will get video streams uploaded by the community.Sure, no one wants to feel unsafe walking down the street or in their own home. In theory, introducing a simple, app-based way for individuals to engage in the most well-known crime prevention program in the country seems reasonable. But no one is sure if neighborhood watch programs actually work.Studies on neighborhood watch are rare, and the data indicates that while some communities with neighborhood watch programs experience a drop in crime, others actually see crime spike. Most see little change at all.What is clear is that neighborhood watch is great at violating people’s civil rights, encouraging racial profiling, and annoying neighbors. And these problems are only poised to get worse as high-tech peer-to-peer surveillance increases.Many trace the origin of widespread neighborhood watch programs to the murder of Kitty Genovese in 1964. Genovese was on her way home from work when Walter Mosely stabbed her in the back and dragged her inside, where he attempted to rape her. Eventually, she bled to death. Two weeks later, the New York Times reported that 37 of Genovese’s neighbors had watched the attack and failed to call the police.The reported callousness of Genovese’s neighbors ignited fury across the country, and officials lamented everyone’s apparent disinterest in the safety of their neighbors. Academics coined the term “bystander apathy.”Of course, the details regarding the bystanders to Kitty Genovese’s death turned out to be mostly inaccurate. The Times itself would report, decades later, that “the article grossly exaggerated the number of witnesses and what they had perceived.” Regardless, her murder changed the way Americans view their responsibilities in their neighborhoods — and their connection to the police.Officials wasted little time harnessing the outrage over bystander apathy and implemented the program of quasi–law enforcement groups that would become known as neighborhood watch. Several volunteer groups arose in the early 1970s, from a group in New York who were trained to give eyewitness accounts of crime to an official Neighborhood Watch program developed by the National Sheriffs’ Association (NSA) designed to quickly disseminate information from the police to the community and promote civic engagement.The NSA program was based mainly on controversial research that came out of the Chicago School of Sociology, which advanced the theory that “social disorganization,” or the lack of social control in society, is what leads to crime. Similar to the ideas promoted by “broken windows” policing, the Chicago School thought that cracking down on smaller-scale crimes, with the help of concerned neighbors, could help prevent more serious criminal activity.The general idea with neighborhood watch programs is that citizens can act as extra “eyes and ears” in the community and report crime and suspicious behavior to the police. These programs grew without fanfare for much of the 1980s and ’90s. Police and communities touted the benefits of neighborhood watch, but actual studies were scant and their conclusions unpersuasive. Nonetheless, communities and police continued to start new programs throughout the country until neighborhood watch became the most well-known crime prevention program in the United States.As neighborhood watch programs grew in popularity, so did surveillance technology. CCTV, the first widely used video surveillance tool, gained widespread popularity in the 1980s and ’90s. The video systems allowed cops to magnify their surveillance by feeding video from several different CCTV cameras directly to a bank of monitors overseen by a single person. Business owners and even private citizens enthusiastically installed CCTV systems in the name of crime prevention and personal safety.CCTV — which seems quaint compared to a network of smart doorbells that are technically controlled by a massive e-commerce corporation — was met with harsh backlash from privacy experts, who called it a violation of civil liberties. CCTV owners weren’t concerned. Not yet armed with Wi-Fi and smartphones, they shared their home security bloopers the old-school way: on America’s Funniest Home Videos. It’s a phenomenon continued by Ring, which regularly promotes funny doorbell videos.This turn toward technology-augmented surveillance also provided ample opportunity for government abuse. At the same time that neighbors began to watch each other in the name of public safety, CCTV cameras began to appear, watching us at the bank, the courthouse, and the store. CCTV cameras were installed first by police to monitor select areas, and then increasingly permeated all aspects of the public square.As policing and technology changed, our prison populations boomed, with changes in drug and sentencing policies mandating more and longer sentences. Along with heightened arrest numbers and longer prison sentences, police saw neighborhood watch as an integral part of a war on crime that disproportionately targeted people of color. While white neighborhoods started neighborhood watch programs, black neighborhoods were decimated by overpolicing and incarceration.After 9/11, personal safety and security took on a new urgency. In 2002, the National Sheriffs’ Association joined with the Department of Justice to pivot its program toward national security. Together, they rebranded Neighborhood Watch as USA on Watch, and communities were encouraged to “become active in homeland security” and to “fight against terrorism.” The terrorism-fighting mechanism was mostly limited to encouraging disaster preparedness among neighbors, but the insider/outsider dichotomy present in Neighborhood Watch programs took on new meaning as Islamophobia ran rampant in the wake of the terrorist attacks.Communities, now believing they were responsible for the security of the entire country, began closely surveilling their black and brown neighbors in the name of homeland security and engaged in hate-based violence in the name of retribution for 9/11. The FBI and NYPD took things further, putting entire communities under surveillance for years, using license plate readers and tapping the phones of blocks upon blocks of New Yorkers who lived in predominantly Arab communities.Although it is not clear why, the Department of Justice eventually pulled funding from the USA on Watch program and reverted to its original moniker under the umbrella of the National Sheriffs’ Association. The shift back to the less exciting, nonterrorism-related activities of the average neighborhood watch, however, did not stem the racism that seems to have seeped into most initiatives.While some neighborhood watch programs do nothing more than host monthly police-liaison community meetings, others have adopted the idea and title of neighborhood watch to patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, looking for undocumented migrants, or to stalk the streets on behalf of the KKK, presumably looking for nonwhite residents out after dark. Many of these groups invest heavily in police and military-grade gear, from mobile command centers to high-tech surveillance gadgets.Some of the problems endemic to neighborhood watch groups were thrust front and center in 2012, when neighborhood watch block captain George Zimmerman shot and killed Trayvon Martin in a Florida subdivision. The resulting trial revealed that Zimmerman frequently called the cops to report black men in the neighborhood as part of his neighborhood watch duties. He was eventually found not guilty, and a large part of his defense relied on his role as a protector of the neighborhood.While the Zimmerman trial was happening, neighborhood watch groups were slowly making their way online with the advent of Nextdoor.com, which launched in 2011. Nextdoor was one of the first major websites to actively solicit and distribute crime and safety information to neighborhood users alongside other neighborhood-related content. After a few relatively innocent years of posts about local plumbers and crowdsourced restaurant recommendations, Nextdoor developed a problem: rampant racial profiling. Posts regarding “suspicious” people of color walking down the road, riding their bike, or otherwise existing in public infiltrated the site. White users complained about people of color in their neighborhoods and described suspected perpetrators of crime in unhelpful and racist terms.Nextdoor initially blamed the problem on racist users, but the company eventually set up systems to nudge members away from posting racist content by requiring posters to describe more than the race or ethnicity of suspected wrongdoers. Nextdoor’s solutions were both lauded as innovative and criticized for not doing enough, but no one seemed to question the underlying rationale for peer-to-peer policing in the first place.In fact, Nextdoor’s successes set the stage for other tech companies to enter the market of nosy neighbors. Canary, a home camera system, allows you to sound an alarm or call the police directly from the app’s interface should you detect an intruder while staring at a video stream of your living room. SimpliSafe, a cloud-based home security system that promises to deter criminals from entering your home and promptly reports any alarms or disturbances to the police, had revenue of $38.5 million in 2013, up from $1.4 million in 2010. In 2018, a private equity and venture firm took control of SimpliSafe in a deal that valued it at around $1 billion.Flock Safety, a Georgia-based security startup, wants to bypass individuals entirely. Flock cameras, which cost $1,500 per year, are “designed to solve crime” by reading and tracking the license plates on cars driving through the neighborhood, storing video footage, and using “advanced machine learning” to turn video footage into the “key images needed to make an arrest.” Ring has built something of a cult following around videos captured through its motion-sensing video doorbells, which the company encourages users to share on the Ring app and social media.Neighbors is the logical next step — a place where video clips from your doorbells and security cameras are cannibalized into content for neighbors to scroll through and police to analyze. But Neighbors is also a glimpse into what seems like an inevitable future where neighborhood streets become a high-tech panopticon and neighbors spy on neighbors.Tech companies are successfully convincing us that personal and public safety mandates a reduction in privacy and that policing our neighbors is the mark of a good citizen. But the decades of American jurisprudence about privacy are not merely the stuff of academic debate: They are a stark record of the abuses that arise when the state has unlimited access to the particulars of our lives. As use of private surveillance and high-tech neighborhood watch initiatives expand, we will have to grapple with what exactly we are willing to sacrifice in the name of safety. Because it isn’t just your neighbors the state wants to see from your video doorbell—it’s also you.Update: Following the publication of this story, a Ring representative emailed the following statement:My Mother’s Day was defined by a blue Rubbermaid storage tub sitting ominously in the middle of my closet. It had been there for days. My husband had brought it down because it contained the gift bags and tissue paper necessary to wrap his mother’s gift and mine.The gift he needed to wrap for me? A necklace I hadn’t asked for and didn’t want. For Mother’s Day, I had requested just one thing: a housecleaning service. The gift, for me, was not so much the cleaning itself but the fact that, for once, I would not be in charge of the household office work. I would not have to make calls, get multiple quotes, research and vet each service, arrange payment, and schedule the appointment. The real gift I wanted was to be relieved of the emotional labor of a single task that had been nagging at the back of my mind.The day before Mother’s Day, my husband called a single service, decided it was too expensive, and vowed to clean the bathrooms himself. What I had really wanted was for him to ask friends on Facebook for a recommendation or call four or five more services — do the emotional labor I would have done if the job had fallen to me.Instead, after presenting me with the necklace, he stole away to deep-clean the bathrooms, leaving me to care for our children as the rest of the house fell into total disarray. In his mind, he was doing what I had most wanted — giving me sparkling bathrooms without me having to do it myself. Which is why he was frustrated when I ungratefully passed by, not looking at his handiwork as I put away his shoes, shirt, and socks that had been left on the floor. That was when I stumbled, again, over the Rubbermaid storage tub and reached my breaking point.For days, it had impeded me every time I needed to toss clothes in the hamper or pick out something to wear. It was shoved, kicked, rolled onto its side, but it wasn’t put away. I couldn’t return it to the high shelf where it belonged without enormous effort and the aid of a kitchen chair, but that wasn’t the real problem. It was obvious that the box was in the way and needed to be put back. It would have been easy for him to just reach up and put it away, but instead he had stepped around it, willfully ignoring it for two days. It was up to me to tell him that he should put away something he had taken out in the first place. If I wanted it put away, I could simply ask my husband to do so. He was easily strong enough and tall enough to do it in mere seconds. And therein was the real problem. It was a simple and obvious task that required minimal effort for him. So why hadn’t he done it? Why did I always have to ask?It was a question that led to a tear-filled fight as I tried to get my husband to grasp why being the household manager who notices problems, delegates solutions, and has to ask in a singsong voice to get anyone to comply is exhausting. I was angry and completely spent. I couldn’t quite wrap my mind around all the things I was upset about in the heat of the moment, and certainly not in a way that would make sense. I didn’t have the energy left to explain the mental load or emotional labor to him in a way he would understand or accept. I didn’t want to walk that fine line of protecting his feelings in order to get my point across. So instead, I wrote it down — all the struggles and frustrations that had led to that mess of a moment — and published it as a feature article in Harper’s Bazaar.The essay quickly went viral. Apparently, many women could relate to the imbalance of emotional labor. Men are pitching in with household chores more than ever —fathers reported spending 10 hours a week on household chores in 2016, compared with four hours in 1965. But the fact remains that in heterosexual couples, the woman is usually the one doing the emotional labor of planning playdates, reading the school handbook, noticing which pantry items are running low and putting them on the grocery list, choosing what to bring to the neighborhood potluck… the list goes on.When I wrote the article and shared it with Rob, I was essentially drawing a line in the sand. I was saying, as clearly as I knew how, that we couldn’t go on without him taking his share of responsibility in our life together. It was uncomfortable, difficult, and, quite frankly, even harder than having a blow-up fight about emotional labor every few months. Implementing a shared standard that worked for both of us meant that both of us had to show up and struggle through our individual hangups together. I had to face my perfectionism, my desire for control, the social conditioning that tied my worth to my ability to perform emotional labor. He had to learn these skills for the first time. He had to face the ways he had unintentionally hurt me by ignoring emotional labor for so long. He had to confront the social conditioning telling him that emotional labor — anything that fosters connection to his whole life — is not for him. It was a whole lot of unpacking to do to figure out things like how to best handle laundry and toddler meltdowns as a team.I was commissioned to write a book about the topic, which quickly changed my life from that of a part-time freelancer to a full-time writer. Around the same time, my husband became unemployed. As my work with the book picked up, his job search hit a wall. He had spent hours upon hours applying for jobs, almost none of which were panning out, as we headed into the holidays. It was time for the pendulum to swing into his corner, and I told him so in no uncertain terms. I was ready for a trading-places scenario — for once, I was going to be the one who filled the role of ideal worker while he shouldered the emotional labor. I explained that having the house be a total disaster when I was working wasn’t something that I could overlook or put out of my mind for a few hours. I couldn’t write with a clear head if I knew a pile of unknown horrors was waiting for me on the kitchen table. It stressed me out knowing that once one shift ended, another was waiting for me. I also couldn’t have him come talk over meal plans with me while I was in the middle of work, or ask any other questions about what to do next while I was on the clock. I needed him to do some real emotional labor — and that meant figuring it out without my guidance and delegation. It was a steep learning curve, but one we both knew he was prepared to master.He did exceptionally well taking on the brunt of emotional labor. Without my constant micromanaging, he was able to find his confidence and start feeling competent in this new role. I still asked if he had checked this or done that, but after a few weeks of realizing the answer was always yes, I stopped worrying that he needed my guidance and focused on my work like I said I would. Rob became the only one checking homework and making sure school lunches got packed and meal plans were made and the kids were picking up their belongings (and he was picking up his own). He wrote all 40 of our Christmas cards when I was too burned out to do them. He was the only one calling and texting his parents for most of the month. He reminded me of things that were on the calendar, even when it was on the wall a few feet from my desk. I hadn’t planned on off-loading so much to him; it simply happened. I would end my work hours and fall onto the couch to read more research books while Rob was the one making dinner and then cleaning up afterward.Then I noticed one afternoon, when I took my lunch break, that he seemed really far off. He was there but not really there. I figured I knew what was wrong — that the job hunt was getting to him or he was suffering an identity crisis, but that wasn’t at all what he described when I asked him what was wrong.“I feel like there’s something I need to be doing, something I’ve forgotten, and I can’t figure out what it is.”He had sent our daughter to school with freshly laundered bedding for her cot, packed a lunch and snack for our son, done the laundry, and cleaned the house, and he had reached a lull in his day. There wasn’t anything, at least not anything important, that he was forgetting. He was bogged down by the mental load, though, and couldn’t seem to think straight. It was a feeling I knew well: the nagging sense that I couldn’t sit down or relax for a moment because there was always something that needed to be done. It’s the creeping anxiety that gnaws at you when you’re the only one carrying the mental load for the family. You’re afraid of something falling through the cracks because you’re so tapped out from trying to make sure nothing falls through the cracks. The anxiety wasn’t a revelation to me, but the fact that it was happening to Rob and not me was eye-opening. This wasn’t what I wanted for either of us. When I examined where we were at the moment, with me devoted to my work and nothing else, I also found myself feeling untethered to my life. When I was solely focused on working, letting everything else fall away, I was irritable and unhappy much of the time. There was a distinct emptiness when I wasn’t tending to any emotional labor at all. My life no longer felt rounded and whole. Neither of us was living in a way that made us feel fulfilled.“It takes trial and error,” writes Betty Friedan in The Second Stage, “to work out the practicalities and the real tradeoffs, with men and women now sharing work and home responsibilities, instead of replacing the dreary realities of one with fantasies of the other.” In other words, it takes a lot of conscious effort to get past the fantasy that the grass is always greener on the other side and start tending the soil where we are. We have to figure out how to balance emotional labor through trial and error. We have to accept that we aren’t going to get it right the first time no matter how clear we are in our intentions. I understood the lesson in theory but was still learning it firsthand.There is a big camp of people (let’s be real, men) who don’t think shared standards should exist. I have my standards; you have yours. If my standards bother you, you can go the extra mile to bring it up to your standard or you can learn to live with it. It’s not my fault that you can’t handle the mess. It’s not hurting anyone; it’s just your personal preference. Why should I have to adopt your standard? Why should I have to change? I’ve heard this argument over and over again. It’s not a problem of my initiative. It’s a problem with your standard.It’s a pretty cruel argument. It argues that one person should either have to suffer or put in a disproportionate amount of work because the other person is too lazy to compromise. It implies that the work we have put into creating a life that keeps everyone comfortable and happy has no value — that we create our standards without purpose or meaning. It’s an argument which states that our standards don’t matter, that our feelings don’t matter, that our work doesn’t matter. When our identity is so wrapped up in emotional labor, it’s an argument that says you don’t matter.This is why emotional labor is such a minefield of hurt and resentment. One person’s arbitrary standard is another person’s lifeline. There’s a huge disconnect when our partners do not understand why we do what we do in regard to emotional labor. It’s not only how we keep our lives running smoothly; it’s how we strive to find happiness. What women seek through their high standards isn’t merely perfectionism — it’s the idea of freedom. When we are drawn into the comparison game, when we feel the pressure to “have it all,” when we try every organizational hack in the book, it’s because we’ve been led to believe that, just around the bend, we will find peace. We will find happiness. We will find the life hack that will finally ease our exhaustion, because we don’t believe we can find that relief in our partnerships.Yet after talking with hundreds of women and seeing the dynamic shift in my own relationship, I can see the lie that perfectionism is selling. There is no plateau of perfection I can reach that will help me care for everyone around me, keeping them comfortable and happy, without becoming utterly depleted. I can’t do it all. No one can. Instead, we can evaluate what parts of our emotional labor are intrinsically important to us. We can soul-search for our real priorities — not the ones that have been predetermined for us, but the ones that stem from us. Then we can do what we do best and rearrange our lives accordingly, with care and attention to detail, not for the benefit of others but for ourselves. We can find the relief we’re searching for by setting boundaries, taking responsibility for ourselves, and surrounding ourselves with people, and especially partners, who do the same.When Rob took on more emotional labor, I became happier and more satisfied with our relationship, which made him more apt to keep doing it. When we were both happy and sharing the responsibility of our life together, emotional labor wasn’t such a drag anymore. In fact, we both enjoyed it, because doing emotional labor together made us feel more in tune with each other. More understood. We were no longer shying away from conversations about what was and was not working, because we were past the point of keeping score or trying to win when it came to emotional labor. We were able to trust each other to do our fair share and learn from each other as we aimed to find what shared responsibility and standards would look like for us.What truly brought us to a balance where we both felt comfortable was the fact that both of us were finally doing the necessary work to understand each other. We were actively working our empathy muscles as we looked at each other’s life experiences. Rob was listening to and processing my lived experiences as I laid them out for him. He was no longer responding with defensiveness, but showing an understanding that led naturally to action. He was giving me what I genuinely wanted — not perfectly folded towels or clean countertops like I thought I wanted, but a partner who truly saw me.The midterms were a feminist triumph: Tuesday was dominated by wins for women — women of color in particular — leading to a record-breaking number of women who will be serving in Congress. There was also a slew of notable firsts, including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (the youngest woman ever elected to Congress), Sharice Davids and Deb Haaland (the first Native American women), and Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar (the first Muslim women). As Cecile Richards put it, “women were the heroes of this election.”Some, however, were the villains.While women were a driving force behind many of the Democrats’ successes, some were also responsible for some of the party’s major losses. After all, it was white female Republicans who brought wins home for Ted Cruz, Ron DeSantis and, possibly, Brian Kemp. Despite efforts to reach across the aisle, the majority of white women who voted for Donald Trump in 2016 have not realized the error of their ways, and likely never will. The hope of changing these key voters’ minds by pointing out the craven bigotry of the GOP or the president’s distinct lack of moral compass was, and remains, a fantasy.It’s time to dispense with the myth of American sisterhood. Women are not a monolith, and the women who support Trumpian Republicans — in the face of horrific injustices — will not change.If they were unmoved by traumatized children being ripped from their mothers’ arms, there is little hope of reaching them on a moral or maternal level. If they are not disgusted by the President’s racist and misogynist speech they are not likely to be swayed by arguments about civility and equality. If the women who are voting for Republicans can look at what is happening to this country and the most marginalized people in it — including themselves — and continue to support them, it may be time to write them off as a lost cause.The truth is that white Republican women are not waiting for their minds to be changed by well-meaning feminists; they are happy to vote for Trump. As author Rebecca Traister has written, “White women, who enjoy proximal power from their association with white men, have often served as the white patriarchy’s most eager foot soldiers.” (Brittney Cooper and Elizabeth Gillespie McRae’s work is invaluable on this front.)I used to believe in spending political energy and capital on changing these women’s minds; I suspect many other women still do. In the run-up to the election, there were think pieces about evangelical women, for example, who could not square their beliefs with Trump’s cruel policies and bombast. I also know plenty of white women who try to chip away at the beliefs of their Trump-supporting female family members, hoping that if they say the right thing or debate convincingly enough, their loved one might see the light.I admire such efforts and imagine it occasionally works. But those who believe it’s possible to flip female Trump supporters on a mass scale are overlooking how unwilling these women are to give up the benefits that white supremacy and patriarchy have bestowed upon them.Instead of focusing on women who have long shown us where their loyalties lay, Democrats are better served by continuing the grassroots organizing we saw by some of the winning women this week: Reaching out to voters who have been abandoned by the left or working to enfranchise voters whose rights have been suppressed.So I’m still counting this week as a feminist win. America’s political representation is one step closer to looking like Americans, and there’s no going back from the wave of activism and democratic participation that led to this point. But it wasn’t only women — and definitely not all women — who got us here. And it won’t be all women who continue the fight.It has become my habit to check social media when I first wake up, a consequence of this modern age. I wasn’t sleeping well, so this morning I checked my phone around 5 a.m., expecting to see continued analysis of the midterm elections and maybe a charming news item about Cardi B. I…A runny nose or cough are normal symptoms during the fall, but this year doctors in the United States and Canada are reporting an escalation of symptoms among a small but notable number of kids. One day children have a cold, and the next they’re experiencing polio-like paralysis. It’s not the first time this has happened, either.The condition is called Acute Flaccid Myelitis, or AFM, and it’s a rare disorder that impacts a person’s nervous system. Over the last couple of months, a rise in AFM cases among kids has puzzled doctors. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says that there have been 219 cases reported in 2018 thus far, and 80 cases confirmed in the U.S. The Public Health Agency of Canada reported that there were a combined 44 cases under investigation or confirmed. Currently, 90 percent of the people affected are children under the age of 18.Clusters of these symptoms appear around flu season. In the fall of both 2014 and 2016, there were similar reports of these inexplicable cases. While there are several theories about the cause, much remains unknown about AFM.“The problem with this condition is [that] to some extent there’s more questions than answers,” says Dr. Jeremy Friedman, an associate pediatrician-in-chief at The Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, who is treating several children with the mysterious paralysis. “In this particular cluster, we’re talking about a dozen cases in a condition which we normally see a few times a year.”Here’s everything you should know.This is the hardest question to answer. The ambiguous nature of AFM comes from the lack of evidence to explain its cause. The periodical nature of the illness offers some clues, according to Friedman. The virus has historically spiked in the late summer and early fall. Right now, doctors are homing in on a group of viruses called enteroviruses.In previous cases, doctors combatting clusters of AFM in 2014 and 2106 have suspected a strain of enterovirus called D68. Enteroviruses are in the same family as polioviruses, and have no vaccine or specific treatment. This means that patients need to wait out the course of the disease.This year, the link is not as clear, says Friedman. “We have seen a few [people] test positive for enterovirus, but only one has tested positive for enterovirus D68,” he says. “That particular strain of enterovirus does not seem to be as big a feature as it perhaps was in 2014.”Also stymieing the search for a solution is the unprecedented nature of the disease. Friedman believes a viral cause is still a strong theory, but more research is needed.The disease affects the body’s nervous system through damage to the spinal cord. Coinciding inflammation in different regions of the spinal cord causes a range of paralysis-related symptoms. “Depending on what part of the spinal cord is affected, you might see an arm that’s paralyzed, you might see a leg that’s paralyzed, and you might see both legs,” says Friedman.Doctors have been able to isolate viruses in the noses of the sick children, but have not actually been able to find evidence of enterovirus in the spinal fluid of affected patients. According to Friedman, this could be a sign that children’s immune systems could be to blame for some of the symptoms they’re experiencing.“It makes it seem a bit more likely that it’s not the virus infection that’s causing the symptoms per se, but it’s more related to the body’s immune response, that’s triggered by the viral infection, that might be causing the symptoms,” he says.There’s currently no cure for AFM, but doctors can alleviate its symptoms. Treatment strategies are different based on what a person is experiencing. Currently, doctors use physical therapy in combination with intravenous anti-inflammatory medication to reduce the damage on the spinal cord. But Friedman told Medium that some children still need other, “more sophisticated” treatments to try and help with immune response.While some children appear to be improving more rapidly than in previous years’ outbreaks, some will require more intensive treatments. With our current understanding of AFM, predicting individual outcomes has proven to be very challenging.“I think that when one counsels families, one has to be really honest and transparent about the fact that there really isn’t enough experience with this condition to accurately predict how each individual case is going to play out,” Friedman says.Most of the kids currently affected by AFM have begun to recover or are already recovered, with a few exceptions, says Friedman. Since the initial news of the Toronto outbreak in October, the number of cases has not grown dramatically.“I would say that I think the cluster of cases that we’ve seen at SickKids seems to have slowed down,” Friedman says. “And really, we haven’t seen a lot of activity over the last week at all.”But there is still work to do. The CDC and Public Health Agency of Canada will continue to investigate the epidemiological aspects of the illness — or the larger picture details of how the disease is transmitted in a community. There are also coordinated efforts by doctors and researchers who are treating the disease on the front lines. “There is, in Canada, a group of pediatric neurologists that are sharing all the cases that are being seen across Canada, to pool whatever information they have to try and sort of maximize the learning that can be extracted from this experience,” Friedman says.The best ways to reduce the risk of AFM are still under investigation, but the CDC recommends that people wash their hands frequently, as it’s one of the best ways to avoid getting sick and spreading disease.Three years ago, I up and moved to what could appropriately be called the middle of nowhere. I’d always lived in or near a major metropolitan area: I grew up in a busy Philadelphia suburb and went to college in New York. But when my partner’s company asked him to relocate somewhere significantly sleepier, I decided to tag along.In my corner of central Pennsylvania, I’m separated from most of my neighbors by sprawling cornfields. The local Dollar General is pretty much the only place to pick up ice cream or eggs after 8 p.m. The pizza joints and Chinese restaurants don’t deliver. There’s no Uber, though I did once see a car with a pink Lyft mustache in the windshield. It was so out of place that I took a picture.It took me a long time to get used to my rural surroundings, but there’s a lot I love about being here. I have backyard chickens and beehives and enough space to let my dogs wander. I never have to get out of bed to make sure the doors are locked, because even if they’re not, there’s nothing to worry about. At night, there are plenty of stars, and in the morning, a whole chorus of birds.While my move was kind of extreme, it falls within a crowded category: Across the United States, people are leaving cities for smaller towns and suburbs, and they’re all experiencing different versions of the same adjustment process. According to U.S. Census data, between 2010 and 2017, several major cities nationwide had negative net domestic migration, meaning that people moving out of these urban centers outnumbered people moving in from other parts of the country. In the New York metro area alone, 900,000 more people left than came in during that time period.Constantine Valhouli, co-founder and research director of real estate analytics firm NeighborhoodX, says the big-city shine that appeals to twentysomethings can start to wear off for those looking for more permanency.“Unless you own property — something very few people can afford to do in a place like New York City or San Francisco — you’re at the mercy of a landlord,” Valhouli says. “I think feeling like you’re never going to have any kind of ownership or be able to play at that level detaches people from the city in some way.”But leaving a city, especially if you’ve lived there for a long time, has its own unique challenges. “One of the first researchers of place attachment said part of who we are comes from where we are,” says Leila Scannell, a postdoctoral research fellow at Royal Roads University in Victoria, British Columbia, who studies the way place affects our identities and behaviors. “If you ask people to write down five things about themselves, 90 percent of the time, one of those things has to do with place.”Because attachment to place is so important, a significant move — like, say, from a vibrant metropolis to a sleepy suburb, or even a smaller city — can send you reeling. “When you lose a place you’re attached to, it can cause grief, disorientation, and longing for the past,” Scannell says. “Homesickness is real, and it can be difficult to navigate.” That’s even more true when your move comes with a major lifestyle adjustment.Which is why Valhouli suggests taking things slow. If you have some flexibility around the timing of your move, “Don’t commit without staying there for a while first,” he says. “Use Airbnb. Stay for a week in the spring and a week in the winter. See what it’s like year-round. If you jump right in, a move like this could be traumatic. Do your research first to make sure it isn’t.”Once you’ve made the leap, you can ease the transition by holding on to some specific aspects of your old life. “Bring as many traditions and elements of your former environment as you can along with you,” Scannell says, even if you have to tweak them to fit your new setting. If you had a windowsill garden at your previous place, for example, set up a new one with similar plants in your backyard. If you always stopped at the same coffee shop on your walk to work, find a similar go-to you can easily drive to. You can’t replicate the hustle and bustle of your old life, but smaller, more focused efforts may be enough.It also helps to cultivate hobbies that are better suited to your new location than they were to your old one. I love to hike with my dog, Olive, for instance, and I started to really fall in love with my adopted hometown when I realized it’s only a few miles from the Appalachian Trail. On days when I don’t feel like walking, I can have my kayak in the Schuylkill River in less than 30 minutes.“Connection to place based on activities is important to people,” Scannell says. “Get to know the unique parts of the place that make it special. Find out what you can do there that you can’t do anywhere else.”One of the most important parts of place attachment are your ties to people in your community. This is also one of the most challenging parts of a move — especially if you’re entering a new, smaller dating pool.Even making new friends can be tough. For the first few months after my move, I knew almost no one. When I started craving connection and friendship, I had to get creative. I signed up for group rock climbing lessons, auditioned for a community play, and asked cool-seeming girls at the gym on friend dates.“As tough as it can be to live in a city, there’s a certain effortlessness,” Valhouli says. “You can go for a stroll and find an art gallery or go to a lecture and meet people with similar interests. When you get into these small towns, you have to be more proactive. When your default is ‘there’s nothing going on,’ you have to work for it a little more,” whether the connections you’re seeking are romantic or platonic.One upside to a more limited social scene: Becoming a member of a tight-knit community, Valhouli says, could give you more of an opening to reshape the things you might not love about your new home. But, he cautions, don’t jump right in.“Don’t try to change things, at least not right away,” he says. “At first, just listen and learn. Find out what people are complaining about and what issues they get active over. It’s amazing what you’ll pick up after a year in a place if you don’t come in trying to be the big-city person with a lot of ideas.”In the meantime, if you’re having more trouble adjusting than you expected, Scannell has good news: One thing she’s learned from her research — some of which focuses on people who report being extremely dissatisfied with where they live — is that things get easier the more time goes by.“If you stay in a place long enough, you’ll form connections and social bonds,” she says. “You’ll learn how to use that place to meet your goals, and you will get attached.” If you can wait it out, the odds go up that you’ll fall at least a little bit in love with your new surroundings, even if that love is complicated.“People start off telling me all the things they hate about their place,” Scannell says. “And by the end of the interview, they’re starting to defend it. They say, ‘Well, but, it’s where I live. It’s still home.’”During a press conference at the White House Wednesday afternoon, CNN’s Jim Acosta got into a heated exchange with President Donald Trump. Acosta, a reporter already seen by Trump—and Trump’s supporters—as either merely an aggressive agent or as a literal secret agent, pressed Trump on how he characterized the so-called migrant caravan making its way through Central America as an “invasion.”“They’re hundreds of miles away, that’s not an invasion,” Acosta said.“Honestly, I think you should let me run the country. You can run CNN, and if you did it well, your ratings would be much higher” Trump replied.As Acosta began another question, Trump looked around the room to call on another journalist. “That’s enough,” he told Acosta, as a White House staffer approached to remove the microphone from Acosta’s hand. The staffer grabbed the mic, but Acosta refused to let go.What happened next is the cause of considerable debate. The controversy foreshadows a larger, looming debate—one not merely about the validity of video evidence, but about reality itself.A few hours after the terse exchange, Acosta tweeted that his White House media pass had been revoked. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders released a statement soon after, along with video of the exchange, claiming that Acosta had assaulted the staffer who had attempted to take the mic from his hand. “President Trump believes in a free press and expects and welcomes tough questions of him and his administration,” she wrote. “We will, however, never tolerate a reporter placing his hands on a young woman just trying to do her job as a White House intern.”Sanders later posted a video that zoomed in on the moment where Acosta refused to release his grip on the microphone. It showed the moment when his arm made contact with the staffer’s. “We will not tolerate the inappropriate behavior clearly documented in this video,” Sanders wrote in the attached tweet.That allegation was roundly denounced by other reporters in the room. By Thursday morning, it wasn’t just the interpretation of Acosta’s downward arm motion or contact with the intern that was the subject of frenzied online debate. It was, instead, whether the video Sanders posted had been doctored—sped up to appear as though Acosta had been more forceful.In a tweet that, at this writing, has been shared nearly 30,000 times and liked over 19,000 times, Rafael Shimunov claimed to show evidence that the video had been doctored. This claim that was quickly picked up by a variety of mainstream news outlets and echoed by others performing their own video analysis.“I’ve edited video for 15+ years,” Shimunov wrote in the tweet. “The White House doctored it.” Shimunov, who has professional experience in technology and media development, later clarified that the White House may not have actually altered the video. Instead, Sanders may have been sharing a clip that was manipulated elsewhere.He pointed a finger at Paul Joseph Watson, a vocal right-wing conspiracy theorist often described as “alt-right” (though he disputes that label). Watson refuted the charge.“The claim being made my [sic] some media outlets that I ‘sped up’ the Acosta video is a brazen lie,” he tweeted, attaching what he claimed is the “original editing,” wherein, he said, “no tracks are ‘sped up’… I just zoomed in.”It all leaves us in a familiar spot. In the days following Trump’s inauguration, a similar debate erupted over his erroneous claims about the size of the crowd that witnessed his swearing in. “This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration—period,” then-White House press secretary Sean Spicer aggressively told reporters after the event.It was, in fact, not at all the largest, a fact made all the more obvious by aerial photos released soon afterward. But the Trump White House stood by its claim, and in subsequent months, it was revealed that official photos of the inauguration were cropped by a government photographer “to make the crowd appear bigger following a personal intervention from the president.”But photos are one thing. Video is entirely another.Claims of doctored video have existed for decades—the Zapruder film remains controversial, for instance—but in the 21st century, amateur conspiracy sleuths, armed with increasingly effective editing software, have taken to analyzing video in the search for hidden clues that help bind together their alternative theories of global events. Since 9/11, video analysis has become a veritable cottage industry on YouTube, leading people down weirder and weirder paths and contributing to a splintering of accepted reality.In 2015, work done by computer scientists from Germany and California suggested video analysis was about to enter a new, and stranger, phase after they released the first clips of a program designed to alter video in real time. Their software, called Face2Face, captures the facial movements of someone in a studio and superimposes those expressions onto a video of someone else—a world leader, for instance.Since then, real-time video alteration has only grown more effective. Technologies that change other aspects of doctored videos — like audio — to make them more convincing have grown more powerful, too. And while there are still ways to spot a faked video (including how often the video subject blinks), knowing the truth will only become more difficult. The general public is usually either not aware of the technology or not sufficiently trained to recognize its effects when they occur.Worse, however, will be a question of sourcing.As the debate Thursday showed, determining ownership of a video found on the internet can often be frustratingly difficult, particularly if you’re trying to establish veracity against the instantaneously deadlines of a frenetic news cycle. It’s difficult to decide, in the mere moments of a video scrolling past on Twitter, whether one thing is more accurate than another. Without the ability to know where something came from, or how it traveled, figuring out how and when video may have been altered will quickly become a fool’s errand.Already, the debate over the Acosta video is a wormhole of conspiracy and conjecture. This might be okay if it were limited to a strange corner of YouTube. The Acosta video debate, however, was created and already mainlined into legitimacy by very prominent and established outlets, none more so than the White House itself, which is attempting — whether conscious or not if the video had been altered — to establish, just as it had following Trump’s inauguration, its own narrative of accepted events.Whether or not you believe the White House’s account of what transpired, or those who claim the video has been altered, one thing is certain: this is the new reality. Debates like this one, over the legitimacy of video evidence, are just beginning. Things will only get weirder from here.The World Health Organization (WHO) keeps tabs on every country’s HALE rating, which stands for “healthy life expectancy at birth.” HALE is a measure of how long the average citizen will live before disease or disability sets in. Worldwide, that average is about 63 years. But according to the WHO’s 2016 data, the residents of Japan know something the rest of us don’t; the average Japanese citizen will live without disability until age 75 — nearly six years longer than the average American.A mixture of diet, DNA, and lifestyle factors likely combine to explain this. But cold-weather exercise may also be part of the equation. “Growing up in Tokyo, it was thought that winter training keeps you away from the doctor, and the Japanese often exercise in winter,” says Shingo Kajimura, an associate professor and lab director at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF). “We can see now this makes a lot of sense.”Kajimura’s lab at UCSF focuses on metabolism and energy balance, and specifically on the function of the body’s fat cells. He says cold exposure during workouts may be beneficial for a number of reasons. For one thing, shivering burns a lot of calories. “Shivering is a very energy-demanding and tiring process,” he says. If your goal when exercising is to lose weight, working out in the cold may help a bit.Some of Kajimura’s research has also shown that spending time in cool or cold environments converts some of the body’s fat cells from unhealthy “white” fat to heat-producing, metabolically active “beige” fat. Kajimura says this conversion seems to help the body acclimatize to cold environments and increases resting energy expenditure — the amount of calories a person burns just sitting around. Research by Kajimura and others has shown that beige fat may limit blood sugar spikes and even combat metabolic disorders like diabetes. “For now, this is just a theory,” he says. “We need more investigation.”Exercise also appears to promote the development of beige fat. Kajimura says one hypothesis is that beige fat helps the body filter byproducts called metabolites that are released during exercise. Evidence suggests certain metabolites can contribute to fatigue and post-exercise soreness. So, for a lot of reasons, “Combining cold stimulus with exercise is a great idea,” he says. “I highly recommend exercising outside in the early morning or swimming in cold water.”Fat and fatigue benefits aside, cool-weather training may offer other perks. Maintaining proper internal temperature is one of the body’s main priorities during any activity, says Mike Jett, an instructor and lab director in exercise physiology at the University of Louisville in Kentucky. Exercise produces heat, which the body must labor to counteract if workout conditions are hot and humid. While that’s not a big deal in most circumstances, it can hamper athletic performance. “If heat accumulates, exercise intensity is reduced,” Jett says. Meanwhile, exercising in cool conditions (or even in cold ones, assuming you’re properly bundled) seems to be optimal. The body can devote all its resources to training and performance, rather than to temperature regulation, Jett says. However, “Working out in an intentionally hot room does not make sense from a performance standpoint,” he adds.There may even be some mental health benefits associated with cold-weather exercise. A small 2004 study from Finland found that winter swimming combatted tension and fatigue and improved overall well-being among 36 middle-aged adults. Cold-water exposure seems to activate the central nervous system and stimulate the circulation of hormones that may promote improved mood and energy, write the authors.There are, of course, risks involved with cold-weather training — especially if you’re training aggressively in frigid conditions. “Winter-sport athletes suffer from a high prevalence of airway dysfunction,” says Michael Kennedy, an associate professor of kinesiology, sport, and recreation at the University of Alberta in Canada.Coughing, wheezing, trouble breathing, and mucus buildup in your throat are all signs of cold-induced lung trauma, Kennedy says. While you want to avoid these as much as possible, he says a sensation of burning in your lungs or a taste of blood in your mouth are your biggest concerns. These are indications of damage “deep in the lung” and may have long-term effects on lung health and function, he says. Unhealthy lung inflammation, scarring of lung tissue, and a kind of cold-induced asthma are all possible from exercising in freezing temps without proper protection, he says.If you’re training in temps below 40 degrees, you should take extra precautions to protect your lungs. “Cover your mouth with a buff or some sort of quick-dry neck covering,” Kennedy says. Also, don’t go back indoors until your breathing has slowed to normal. “There is something called the burden of rewarming where, if your breathing is still elevated, it causes more water to be sucked out of the airway,” he says. That can promote lung stress.Cold-weather exposure may also be risky for people with heart disease. “When you’re exposed to cold, the body tries to prevent heat loss by shrinking the blood vessels,” Kajimura explains. This can elevate a person’s blood pressure and could be bad news for someone with hypertension or heart trouble, he says.But taken together, most of the research suggests that working out in cool or cold conditions is good for you. That doesn’t mean you should be running in shorts and a T-shirt when it’s 10 degrees out. If you’re properly geared up and taking care to shield your lungs from too much dry, icy air, there’s no reason to take your workouts indoors this winter.The Copyright in the Digital Single Market Directive had been under negotiation for years, and it was set to be the first update to E.U. copyright since the 2001 Copyright Directive. In the 17 intervening years, the copyright landscape had experienced massive shifts. The new Directive was seen as a must-pass piece of omnibus legislation comprising dozens of wonky and technical fixes to E.U. copyright rules. It was largely seen as uncontroversial — that is, until May 25.That was the day German MEP Axel Voss reinserted two long-abandoned, hugely controversial rules into the draft regulation:Both of these proposals were and are hugely controversial. The E.U.’s own technical experts had considered and discarded them after earlier efforts along these lines ended in disaster. Germany had tried “Link Taxes,” but Google simply boycotted any site demanding a link license, which gave newspapers no choice but to offer Google free licenses. Google. Google’s smaller competitors, including European sites, did not receive the same offer, meaning that a measure intended to curb Google’s dominance ended up increasing it instead.As for Article 13, critics noted significant problems with the voluntary copyright filter Google has already built: YouTube’s “ContentID” system. Content ID is a $60,000,000 copyright enforcement system that allows a few trusted rightsholders to add their copyrighted works to its database and either block any copies of those works, or force ads to appear on any videos the system believes contains their copyrighted works and funnel the ad revenue to these rightsholders’ accounts.ContentID is widely loathed. The rightsholders who use it complain that it doesn’t catch enough infringement. The creators whose videos are flagged by the system say its hair-trigger blocking behavior catches all manner of innocent works, including public domain NASA Mars lander footage, birdsong, background noise, silence, public domain musical compositions, and copyrighted works used in accordance with “Fair Use” and “Fair Dealing.” And YouTube’s army of users complain that ContentID blocks their favorite videos.Rather than fixing it, Article 13 would massively expand this deeply flawed system. Right now, ContentID only filters videos’ soundtracks. Article 13 would expand the filter to consider text, music, video, still photos, software code, game mods, 3D printing files, and anything else that might be copyrighted. ContentID currently allows only a small set of trusted rightsholders to add to its blacklist; Article 13 would let all 2,000,000,000+ internet users add to these blacklists. ContentID reserves the right to cancel a rightsholder’s access to its blacklists for abusing the system — falsely claiming copyright through carelessness or malice, for example — while Article 13 would require perpetual access for rightsholders, even anonymous parties claiming to be rightsholders. Article 13 would give them the power to block anything and everything from being posted to the Internet.These proposals were introduced at the end of May. By late June, more than a million Europeans had mobilized in opposition, forcing a vote in the European Parliament to allow debate before the Directive was passed. Alas, that vote went in Voss’s favor, and Articles 11 and 13 were included in the near-final version of the Directive. This was not so much a victory for Voss as it was a defeat for his opponents, who outnumbered him but who were divided by a series of slightly different proposals amending or striking out Articles 11 and 13.The new Directive is now in the “trilogues” — closed-door negotiations between the E.U.’s Parliament and individual national governments. Normally, these are a formality that takes place out of public view. However, the current trilogue is both more contested and more public than any in the E.U.’s history.The European Court of Justice has ruled that Europeans are entitled to know what happens in these trilogue negotiations, and German Pirate Party MEP Julia Reda has pledged to publish the negotiating documents (and she’s kept her word).What’s more, the trilogues coincide with political changes in Italy, and the Italian government has withdrawn its support for Articles 11 and 13. This brings the proportion of Europeans who oppose these articles past the critical threshold of 35%, a theoretical “blocking minority” that could scuttle the entire proposal (assuming they can avoid the trap the opposition fell into last time: agreeing that these rules aren’t appropriate but disagreeing on what to do about it).It’s not clear what will happen next. If these rules are meant to cut Big Tech down to size, they’re sure to disappoint. Google, Facebook, Twitter, Apple, and the other tech giants are the only companies big enough to be able to afford the hundreds of millions it will cost to follow the new rules. Small competitors in the E.U. just don’t have that kind of cash. Freed from any threat of competition from E.U. companies, dominant tech platforms will be left to grow unchecked. They will present even more of a threat to democratic discourse, privacy, and competition than they already do.And the problems these rules will cause won’t be confined to the E.U. If implemented today, the new rules would force online communications platforms to either block all users in the E.U. or censor the whole world’s internet.Even if you think the internet’s main function is to serve up entertainment and news, these rules are still a bad idea. But the internet is more than that: it’s our new global nervous system. These rules will affect education, civic and political engagement, family life, employment, and a thousand other fields of human endeavor. To pass them would be an act of gross regulatory malpractice in a parliament charged with the orderly governance of more than 508,000,000 people.We used to make fun of their house. We would ride our bikes by on a Friday night and stick up our middle fingers and laugh at them if they were out on their porch. Once, one of my friends stole the Skrewdriver flag from their front yard. They had security cameras all over the property; we knew they had plenty of guns inside. We were playing with fire, and we liked it. It was fun.The Vinlanders Social Club claimed to be a men’s club obsessed with Nordic traditions. Founded by Brien James, who was rumored to have been kicked out of the Outlaw Hammerskins for being too violent, and Eric Fairburn, who memorably had M-U-R-D-E-R tattooed across his neck, the Vinlanders were clearly a white power group, and no one thought otherwise.Sometime in the mid-2000s, the Vinlanders bought a house in Indianapolis just a few blocks from mine. They put up their flags like they were staking out their territory—sometimes they flew just a Confederate flag, sometimes other flags emblazoned with vague racist or nationalist iconolatry, sometimes the Nazi flag, sometimes the Skrewdriver flag.They would show up around the neighborhood every couple weeks, over by Lo-Bills or the Rent-a-Center, flashing their tattoos, lacing their boots in one way or another to show their various allegiances. Sometimes they started fights at shows, they handed out flyers covered with spelling mistakes and racial slurs, but mostly they were fighting with each other, calling each other “pussy.” The Vinlanders seemed to be endlessly drunk and forever posing for pictures, shirts off, showing off their tattoos in their backyard, over by their collapsing privacy fence, next to their overflowing trash bins. They were, honestly, ridiculous.I was at home rocking my newborn when three Vinlanders were drinking at an Irish pub a few miles away and attacked a black man. They beat him unconscious in the middle of the street and witnesses said threatened to kill all the bystanders who were scrambling for their phones to call the police. Over the next few years, their ideology spread and they became more violent. Eric Fairburn (after being released for beating the man downtown) was re-arrested for the murder of another man. Vinlander Adrian Apodaca was convicted in a murder-for-hire plot. Two others were just released this summer after a mistrial, accused of murdering a white woman because she was dating a black man. Brien James, who I sometimes saw shopping at Kmart on Southern Avenue, became a suspect in the near-death beating of a fellow white nationalist over disagreements on how their organizations should be run.My riding by and flipping them the bird was barely heroic—in fact, the reason I am writing this is precisely because it wasn’t. That was 2006 or so, before Trump. Even before Obama. I didn’t take these guys seriously; in the Midwest, everyone like me had at least one cousin like this. They were buffoons and lived on the fringes of our existence. I assumed they were a throwback to a hideous yesteryear. I lived in a very white and very straight world—I had no idea how harmful or dangerous these guys could be. After all, it wasn’t me they were after.I’m not alone. Most of us in white America didn’t see the rise of the alt-right and of undaunted, normalized racism coming. We also weren’t looking. But I lived right where these groups were trying to grow their base: my poor, working-class, and nearly all-white neighborhood with our crumbling houses, minimum-wage jobs, and busted chain link fences. It was a prime location for racist skinheads to recruit. I moved out of that neighborhood not because I didn’t love and feel deep fellowship with my non-Vinlander neighbors, but because I knew that being poor and having a white son in a neighborhood like that made him vulnerable to the rage. They were there to feed off our misfortunes.I’ve watched guys get recruited into these scenes over the years. The Midwest has this incredible way of making you feel small; it’s something about that huge open sky and the sprawling, endless, broken-down cities. Girls fall into crap marriages, and guys fall into whoever is going to tell them they have meaning that reaches beyond their Rust Belt lives.I have since moved back to the South, a place I cherish and an identity I claim. I love the South dearly. I love the way dusk falls on tobacco and dust falls on the road behind you when you’re driving home. The air feels lighter to me down here, but the history heavier. To be white, working-class, and Southern comes with a huge responsibility. We live within a referendum on race.Just 30 minutes north of my home in Greensboro, the reported imperial wizard of the Ku Klux Klan peddles hate literature and sells Klan memberships out of his rented house in Pelham (when he’s not in jail for DUI). And 30 minutes west of me, the state chairman of the League of the South makes podcasts about building a fascist movement in downtown Kernersville. Because of history, white folks in the South have a duty to refute this legacy. Sometimes it feels cumbersome, like an albatross; sometimes it feels like a great honor to hold this point of change in our hands.The rest of the country likes to—perhaps needs to—think of the South as a hugely backward place, in the style of Dukes of Hazzard or, worse, Deliverance. But the South I know is a community of queers and transfolk, immigrants and refugees. One yard up the street from me is planted entirely with Thai basil instead of grass and my neighbor gives me tomato seeds that come from his daddy’s sharecropping days. Here, we are mismatched and scrappy, imperfect and great.Much of the new South is like this. Small cities like Siler City, where white supremacist David Duke once rallied in an anti-immigrant fervor, have been re-energized by newcomers. It’s now alive with mariachi bands and brightly painted “tiendas” that saved the town from economic collapse. Mountain towns like Jefferson have an elderly couple who survived the Holocaust homesteading on its outskirts, and coastal towns like New Bern have Burmese grandmothers teaching Baptist moms to make ngapi.When I woke the other morning to see that a local tattoo artist had posted a hate group tattoo in his gallery of recent works, I knew exactly what that meant and who that threatened. I love the South, my neighborhood, and my family. I love our gardens and our mosque and our churches and the Honduran car repair place. I love my neighbor who leans over his children playfully in the yard and makes a tent out of his dreads for them to play in.This is my community and supremacists are not welcome here.I’m not going to name the artist who did the tattoo because I’m interested in discussing complicity in a way that goes beyond the confines and trench-digging, of my hometown. What matters most is how he responded to being told he had done a hate group’s tattoo: He told us he didn’t care. “It’s not my tattoo, so why do I care?” he wrote in several places before he fell to public pressure and apologized.The thing is, I don’t think we get to not care. Two days before he inked the “Proud Boy” tattoo, a white gunman tried to get into an African-American church in Kentucky and ended up shooting two people of color in a grocery store, one of them a black grandfather shopping with his grandson. The same day the tattoo was posted to social media and hashtagged with the dog whistle #ProudBoys, a man in Florida was being arrested for mailing bombs to leftist targets. While the tattoo artist was using a laughter emoji to respond to those questioning him, 11 people were murdered in their Pittsburgh synagogue by a white supremacist.No one is claiming that the tattoo artist committed these crimes. After all, his alibi is solid; he was busy tattooing hate symbols on someone’s forearm. No one believes these men who attacked and killed people had anything to do with each other directly (the extremist alt-right communities are notoriously fragmented and divided). Even the subjects of the tattoo—the Proud Boys—seem to position themselves above this general white supremacist fray. They claim to be somehow both the upstanding gentleman and the belligerent brawlers of the alt-right movement.Before Gavin McInnes founded the Proud Boys, he co-founded Vice Media and earned the title of “The Godfather of Hipsterdom.” McInnes is keenly aware of a toxic, binary ideology that has come to define modern American politics and that language is central to that environment. Relying heavily on double-dealing rhetoric, he wants Proud Boys to seep into the cracks that form through this tension.Liberal and progressive white people always relied heavily on the trope of bigots being ridge-runners and backwoods hillbillies, probably as a way to distance themselves and signal their “differences.” McInnes seems well aware of this and is actively trying to create an alternative supremacist that can’t be pegged, one that fits into an edgy popular culture.Proud Boys are vocal in their dislike of bumbling Klansmen and goose-stepping Nazis. They want to make clear that they are not your Snuffy Smith racists of yesteryear. Proud Boys present themselves as today’s hate group sophisticates, smoking cigars after office jobs and putting back a few craft beers with the boys. They boast that they are not an all-white organization nor segregationists, but instead simply believe in the supremacy of “white Western culture.” As a result, Proud Boys have a handful of men of color in their ranks who seem to have been drawn in by the rampant misogyny and the promise of joining white cultural supremacy, somehow ignoring the inherent racism in doing so.Their proclamations are rarely corroborated by the actions of rank-and-file Proud Boys who ceaselessly post racial slurs on white nationalist internet pages and regularly show up at white nationalist rallies serving as the muscle to protect the supremacists (Charlottesville “Unite the Right” organizer Jason Kessler was a Proud Boy).McInnes doesn’t really even seem to believe his own claims about the organization: He announced the founding of the group in Taki’s Magazine, a far-right publication that also regularly publishes Richard Spencer and Jared Taylor. In the same breath he disavows déclassé racists, he will claim, “I don’t want our culture diluted. We need to close the borders now and let everyone assimilate to a Western, white, English-speaking way of life.”If Brien James and the Vinlanders were bottom feeders, then McInnes and the Proud Boys are designed to feed off the darker angels of mainstream white America: the jaded suburban boys who felt they were promised more than the dull pencil-pushing lives they now lead. Proud Boys unapologetically describe themselves as “Western chauvinists,” and unapologetic is the point. They believe that apologizing for their superiority—their maleness and their white culture—shows weakness and that any movements that hope to shift power away from them are the enemy. While they are quick to point out that they hate both the Klan and Nazis, Proud Boys seem singularly focused on physically attacking antifascists, socialists, anarchists, and people of color.For years, McInnes had a reputation of being somewhere between a shock jock and a comedian, and he is purposefully evasive in his language. Railing against politically correct culture ad nauseum, he insists that Proud Boys are pro-women and it is feminists who are attacking women’s rights. Liberals are the racists for insisting on affirmative action that hurts black people who can’t achieve. “Western chauvinism” is progressively pro-gay because it is anti-Islamic backwardness. The act of calling out hate speech is hate speech. Raping a woman with short hair is actually her raping you because it’s like having sex with a boy. You’re a racist if you think saying the n-word is a slur. You’re a bitch if you think calling you a bitch is bitchy.There is nothing to apologize for, everything turns around, everything is gaslit, if you call it gaslighting you’re gaslighting, ceci n’est pas une pipe, ceci n’est pas fascism. McInnes packages his anti-PC rhetoric as something new and edgy, but of course it’s the most antiquated view out there: If you are offended, then maybe you need to learn how to take a joke.If you work through McInnes’ nearly two decades of progressively provocative and increasingly hate-filled writing and “humor,” or listen to the hours upon hours of his show and media interviews, it starts to matter less and less if Proud Boys are nationalists or racists or homophobes or what their actual politics are. Their purpose is plainly to obliterate opposition using age-old practices of minimizing, verbal abuse, and ultimately, physical assault. The space they are trying to create is violent and soulless and without standards or ethics or care. It the type of space preordained to be dominated by those who already have power.Beyond this duplicitous ideological wordplay, the one solid and consistent piece of the Proud Boys is their cardinal insistence on violence. McInnes, on his own show, drops his chicanery: “We will kill you. That’s the Proud Boys in a nutshell. We will kill you.” McInnes frequently encourages violence in his speaking and writing, especially against Muslims and immigrants, but honestly, against whomever: “Choke a motherfucker. Choke a bitch. Choke a tranny,” he says on the show.And Proud Boys do. Proud Boy fights against protesters have become commonplace at rallies around immigration or race since Trump’s election. Proud Boys were among the group arrested for attacking DeAndre Harris in Charlottesville, beating him with poles, metal pipes, and wooden slabs. Two weekends ago, brawls with Proud Boys broke out on opposite coasts in Portland and New York City. Video from the New York sidewalk outside the venue where McInnes was speaking shows Proud Boys repeatedly kicking a protester in the head while yelling, “Faggot. Faggot. Foreigner. Faggot.”McInnes, of course, won’t apologize. He says “faggot” isn’t hate speech; it’s what you call a man who cries. He says the man on the sidewalk was crying.In this America, when you don’t care, you are siding with the oppressor.The third step in becoming a Proud Boy, apparently, is to get the Proud Boy tattoo. The fourth step is to “engage in a major conflict for the cause.”The first step my hometown needs to take is to state clearly and without caveat that hate is not welcome here.Unfortunately, that is not what’s been done. The response of the Greensboro tattoo artist and many of his supporters mirrors the Proud Boy toxic brew of flippancy, dismissiveness, and intimidation. When a second shop discovered they had a self-professed Proud Boy working for them, they issued an apology, a mental health explanation for his behavior, and an assurance he had left the Proud Boys and that he is a really good guy (and then, they deleted the apology). Accusations that those who voiced concern about hate speech were just trying to cause problems and ruin careers, that they had hidden agendas or were being too sensitive, are the type of responses that evade the serious problems at hand by shifting the focus to those speaking out.Others defended the tattoo artists because they knew them and liked them or their art personally. Even when astigmatic, the instinct to protect your friends is right and true. But so is the instinct to protect your community.The problem is, in Trump’s America, whether you are branding your arm or defending your friend or silently standing by, you are always the soldier for someone’s cause. You can’t bow out. To actually be something of your own design—something relevant—you have to do something, not defect or deflect.From our tattoo shops to our neighborhoods, we can choose to make it clear that hate is not welcome here. We can be articulate and clear and create communities very much the opposite of McInnes’ nebulous and ethically adrift wasteland. If we make our spaces explicitly safe for people of color, women, queers, and immigrants, then they become inhospitable to hatred. And we will not have to issue uncomfortable apologies or do damage control. If we do it before they come, they will not buy a house a few blocks from us, they will not fly their flags, and they will not hurt the people we love.It is scary and uncomfortable and hard to be at odds with people in your community, to push into public debate, to embrace tension. I have done it imperfectly. But I have also made the mistake of not taking a hate group moving to my neighborhood seriously. At the time, I didn’t think about all the ways my silence, and that of my neighbors, made that possible. It is true that by now nearly all Vinlanders have gone to prison and are no longer a threat. Brien James somehow made it through and is no longer a Vinlander. In fact, he is now the Indiana representative for the Proud Boys.I have seen the mistakes of my own inaction, but being able to take responsibility is one of the privileges of my life. I am older now and come to know the divinity of community. I have listened past my own echo to hear the calls of a thousand forests’ birds. I live in a world where caring is brave. And I won’t apologize.“Wireless charging” features built into recent devices, like the iPhone XS, certainly make it sound like our present-day consumer tech is cordless. That’s not quite true, of course. A fancy charging pad still needs to be plugged into something — a wall outlet, say — meaning there’s a lot to trip over even after upgrading to the latest and greatest smartphones.And so, the inevitable question arises: When will we finally ditch the wires altogether? It really depends on who you ask, and how far into the future you’re thinking.The technology required for true wireless charging has been investigated as far back as 1890, first by inventor and scientist Nikola Tesla, who successfully transmitted power over long distances in demonstrations, but never completed his research. Tesla — the man, not the car company — actually invented many modern wireless electricity techniques almost 100 years ago, including the basis for capacitive charging today. A century later, we’re only just beginning to expand on these ideas.The wireless charging in current phones uses a technology called “inductive coupling,” which works over very short distances. This method isn’t new, and it’s barely “wireless”: old electric toothbrushes made by Oral-B used it in the 1990s, for example.If you have a phone that supports wireless charging today, you can hover it about a centimeter off its pad and maintain the current. But practically speaking, the device needs to rest on top of it. There’s a tight coil of copper in the charger, which generates an electromagnetic field. That field is received by another coil in the back of your phone, and then it’s converted back into electricity.Interest in this technology surged after Apple adopted wireless charging last year for the iPhone X and iPhone 8. This caused the smartphone industry to finally settle on a wireless charging standard called Qi, which guarantees compatibility with a wide range of chargers. Qi has been around for years in various forms, with many Android phones using the technology as far back as the Palm Pre in 2009.The addition of Qi to the iPhone led to a slew of chargers joining the market almost overnight. Apple, with its massive market share, sent a clear signal: Wireless charging is here to stay. Suddenly, Qi pads were everywhere — IKEA has even experimented with building the technology directly into its furniture.While Qi may not be so exciting, other wireless innovations show promise, and aren’t actually that far away.Resonant inductive coupling, which shares many similarities with inductive coupling, has one side of the copper coil “resonate” or vibrate, resulting in the ability to send power over much higher distances in much higher voltages (up to a theoretical 15 feet) via systems like Energous’s WattUp.Researchers are actively working on these ideas, with some demonstrations, at scale, already available. Disney in 2017 showed off a “living room” prototype that can power 10 devices wirelessly, including an iPhone, a lamp, and other objects. The idea, in the long term, is to hide a bunch of coils in your walls and forget wires entirely. But today, there’s a catch: Disney asks that you don’t stand within 46 centimeters of the giant copper pole in the middle of the room, as it exceeds federal guidelines relating to human energy exposure.Stephen R. Rizzone, president and CEO of Energous Corporation, told Medium that the company seeks a more convenient future, “where electronic devices are continually ‘topped off’ versus the current need to monitor electronic devices and actively seek out a charging source to recharge.”Another company, Cota, promises a charging experience similar to Wi-Fi: just install a transmitter and compatible devices will be powered when in range. The company is also working on a “forever battery” that will fit into old devices — gadgets that take AA batteries, for example — to make its wireless technology backwards compatible.Meanwhile, one of the largest barriers for these types of products is safety and regulation.On one hand, wireless charging actually reduces electric shock risk, because open wall outlets would no longer be necessary — a kid couldn’t put a fork through a wall and into the copper coils beyond. On the other hand, there’s a large unknown relating to the safety of magnetic fields and the human body. WiTricity, another startup in the space, claims the risks are no higher than with any other wireless technology (though, of course, it would say that).There’s also the issue of miniaturization. It’s one thing to put a big charging coil in your phone, but how about lightbulbs, sound bars, or even a laptop? As devices get thinner, will we still be able to fit this kind of technology inside? Looking further out, questions remain around whether or not it’s possible to beam enough electricity to power a TV, computer, and a bunch of phones at the same time.“The ability to walk from your kitchen through the family room and into your bedroom continually charging your smartphone with safe wireless charging power — this reality is closer than you think,” he said.He’s right that true wireless is on the horizon, and we can look to electric cars for hints today. WiTricity, which started with a focus on consumer applications but recently pivoted to wireless car charging, already has its products out in the world. Just drive your electric car over the company’s charging mat to fill the battery to full capacity overnight.By the end of next decade, it’s likely many of us will experience wireless power at home or at the office, as it becomes the new standard and changes the way we think about wires. The death of cables has been long and painful, but it’s genuinely on the horizon, for the first time.Author’s Note: Parts of President Trump’s speech have been rearranged and slightly edited for clarity and narrative. Considering 70 percent of his claims are false or misleading anyway, the liberty felt appropriate.About 30 minutes into the president’s speech, something inside me snapped. I’d been in Trumpworld for over eight hours, wholly submerged in the MAGAsphere, and I thought I’d acclimated. I thought I was immune to the headaches and nausea and screaming angry outbursts that are common when a liberal is exposed to Donald Trump and 12,000 of his rally-goers. No matter what I heard or saw from the president and his people, I could handle it, I thought—I could hold their world in my hand, curious, and observe it as closely as I wanted without putting myself in any danger. I was wrong.Sweating and cursing uncontrollably, head on a swivel, I pushed my way out of the overflow crowd gathered outside the Ford Center in downtown Evansville, Indiana, where the president was inside rallying the base into a fever pitch. A massive video screen—a Jumbotron, really—had been placed on top of a white trailer outside the arena and was broadcasting the feed to the 2,000 or so supporters who hadn’t been able to fit inside.The president’s words echoed from the P.A. system, and I picked up the pace, literally biting down on my tongue as I put as much distance between myself and a potential punch to the back of the head as possible. There was one place I knew I would be safe. There, on the other side of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., behind a wall of police officers: protesters. 500 of them, at least, holding signs, chanting, expressing all their pent-up frustration and anger while surrounded by a small army of like-minded liberals.“My people,” I thought, as I approached the curb where a group of Trump supporters were still engaging in a back-and-forth with the protesters. Right as I walked up, however, they launched into a particularly accusatory chant:“Go home, ra-cists!”“Go home, ra-cists!”“Go home, ra-cists!”They were screaming, faces scrunched in anger, spittle flying from their lips, and they were pointing at us—at me. I wanted to yell out, “No, wait! I’m on your team,” but of course, in that moment, I wasn’t. It didn’t matter that I’d been yelling in the streets since Occupy or that I canvassed for Bernie, voted for Hillary, and currently have a “Donnelly for Senate” sign planted in my yard. Nothing I had ever done or said or believed mattered—I was no longer an individual person.In that moment, the only thing that mattered was the side of the street I was standing on.I encountered my first Trump supporters a few miles outside of downtown Evansville, in the parking lot of a liquor store. I’d made the 175-mile journey down I-69 in less than three hours, the vast rural nothingness between Indianapolis and Evansville blurring together into one never-ending unincorporated township, and I had some time to kill before checking into the hotel. I swung into the Liquor Locker off the expressway to pick up a post-rally sixer, and that’s when I saw them. Two white guys in their early twenties, sporting neon ’80s-style sunglasses, flip-flops, and matching American flag shorts. As if that didn’t give them away, they’d written TRUMP 2020 #MAGA on the dirty back window of their silver SUV. Watching them lugging beer out of the store, giddy and laughing, I was reminded of being in college and loading up the van before going to Panama City for spring break 2003 #SUYT. Which got me thinking about all the bad decisions I made when I was that age, which led to the inevitable question: Could I have been one of those dudes? If I’d been born in the late ’90s, and not the early ’80s, could I have been a Trump bro?My initial reaction was to say, “Fuck no.” I might have made some bad decisions when I was that age, done some things I’m not proud of, brought shame to my parents, but in no way could I have ever been one of those guys, pregaming for a Donald Trump rally. Right? The more I thought on it, the less certain I became.Having grown up in a privileged, whitewashed suburban community outside Indianapolis, and having attended a nearby college where I hung out exclusively with other privileged white suburbanites, I had a wildly skewed, totally ignorant perception of the world outside my own existence at that age. And while I certainly can’t imagine, at any age, finding appeal in Trump’s anti-immigrant, racist rhetoric, I couldn’t help but wonder, for instance, if maybe I could’ve been convinced his war against political correctness was a worthy one—that my constitutional right to say something offensive in casual conversation with friends, which I did all the time back then, outweighed the personal hurt and discomfort it caused in others who might hear me. I really don’t know. Maybe. Probably.And could I have been led to believe, if all my frat brothers also believed it, that the white man was being unfairly targeted, discriminated against, even—that it was us who were the victims? I mean, I would fucking hope not. I would hope that my 21-year-old self, despite such a limited worldview, would have seen that for the utter bullshit it is. But honestly, I can’t say for certain.What I know for sure is that 21-year-old me, like 36-year-old me, would have been a Bernie supporter, but that the younger version, unlike the older, would not have voted for Hillary, not after the DNC rigged the primary in her favor. I also know that I would have found candidate Trump amusing and probably totally harmless—I did, after all, host a weekly Thursday evening get-together during my junior year of college, not to play beer pong or deal poker, but to watch The Apprentice at nine o’clock on NBC. It cracked us up, the over-the-topness of it all, and we hollered, “You’re fired!” at each other for the better part of a year.But would all that have been enough to earn my vote? Would his celebrity appeal and the male chauvinism and his decidedly non-political correctness have been enough to override the values my parents—both devoted Democrats—instilled in me? Well, in real life, back in 2000, my first ever vote was cast for Ralph Nader, who I thought was going to legalize marijuana. So, yeah, I’m pretty sure I would have sold my parents values out in a heartbeat, at that age.“And once you’re on the Trump train,” I thought, with a shiver, as I walked into the Liquor Locker, “you’re only a stop away from pregaming in your American flag shorts.”Originally, I had planned on staying in the DoubleTree hotel across the street from the Ford Center, but when I’d gone to book a room that morning, all 241 were sold out. They had been for three days, filled with Trumpworld support staff and rally personnel. Instead, I ended up at the only place downtown that had an available room, Le Merigot Hotel, which was connected to the Tropicana casino and billed as “Evansville’s first boutique hotel.”In order to get from my room to the street, I first had to cross the casino floor, 200 yards of red-carpeted temptation. I made it past dangling cigarettes, trays of sweating cocktails, and a silver-haired woman in a pink Playboy bunny shirt, but I couldn’t escape the rows and rows of penny slots. I grabbed at my wallet, opening it to reveal a solitary dollar bill. Machines were plink-plinking all around me, bells were ringing, people were winning. I could feel my heart beat a little faster as I sat down next to a lady huffing a cigarette and aggressively smacking her machine’s spin button. I pumped in my last dollar, an act that gave me a tingle of shame mixed with adrenaline. I felt like a junky about to spike a vein. I hit spin.This—right here on the floor of the Tropicana Evansville—this was the American dream. Forget the antiquated ideal of the 1950s, that nonsense about how anyone no matter who they were or where they came from (assuming they weren’t black or brown or female) could forge a better existence for themselves in this country through dedication, initiative, and a lifetime of hard work. Fuck that shit. Now it’s all about making the most amount of money in the shortest amount of time with the least amount of effort. The American dream of today is about going viral, becoming a YouTube influencer, a reality TV star, an Instagram endorser; it’s about buying a Powerball ticket, finding Boardwalk on a box of McDonald’s fries, meeting an angel investor on an elevator. The new American dream is pulling the lever for Donald Trump and making all your problems disappear.A minute later, after only three spins, my dream was dead, and I was slinging my backpack over my shoulder and walking out onto the street, forced to go to work.“Why are you doing this again?” My wife’s parting words bounced around my head as I made the short walk from the hotel to the Ford Center. It was a fair question. It’s not like anyone was paying me to be there. I hadn’t been contracted to write a story; George Soros hadn’t paid me to protest. Why in the hell was I attending a Donald Trump rally?What I told my wife, and it was the truth, was that I wanted to experience a Trump rally as one of his followers experiences it. I wanted to get lost in the spectacle and forget about the politics of it all. I wanted, somehow, to humanize Trump supporters, turn them back into individuals in my mind. I’d been having a hard time breathing deep and staying calm about the future of our country as we careened toward midterms. I was hoping that by exposing myself to Trumpworld, by allowing myself to get swept up in the MAGAness of it all, I would come away with some valued insight, an understanding of his supporters that would make me feel not so certain that we were on a collision course toward civil war.What I didn’t tell her was that when I’d received the text from Trump inviting me to the rally, my first thought had been: I have to go. Which is kind of a weird reaction, I must admit, from someone with so much disdain for the guy. But the truth is, I felt drawn to the rally, as if some greater gravitational force were pulling from my couch, out of my bubble, and into Trumpworld. I had to know what it was like.I rounded the corner at Sycamore and Sixth, and there it was. My first Donald Trump rally. And, holy shit, I had not expected the line to be so long. It snaked from the entrance of the Ford Center, coiling down Main Street, around the Ford Center, and disappearing off into the distance. There were so many people spread out over such a long distance it was impossible to get an accurate count: I guessed somewhere north of 5,000, and south of 63 million.A lot gets made of the “circus-like” atmosphere accompanying Trump rallies, but as I joined the tail end of the line, I was struck by how subdued the vibe was. Garth Brooks wasn’t blaring loudly from a handheld speaker, nobody was aggressively leading patriotic chants, a big-bellied shirtless man didn’t run up and down the street waving an American flag—people were just kind of standing around, listlessly, waiting for the line to start moving so they could all shuffle into an enclosed, air-conditioned space. It reminded me more of the end of the circus, when all the exhausted animals are herded onto the train bound for the next town. Then again, it was 90 degrees and hair-curlingly humid, and a lot of these people had been standing in line without shade for hours, prompting numerous heat-related ambulance runs. I don’t think I would have been much in the mood for a “Lock her up!” chant at that point either.The free tickets to the event had explicitly stated there was no dress code, and yet, I noticed that most everyone had come dressed uniformly anyway, depending on their generation. The older crowd, the grandparents, the baby boomers were the most overt and transparent in their devotion to the president, with many sporting 2020 campaign gear and other Trump-specific apparel.The generation behind them, generation X, were much less politically expressive, probably because many looked to have just come from work. There were plenty of construction boots, flannel shirts, and nursing scrubs, but also people wearing khakis and polos, blouses and dress skirts. To signify their support, they wore buttons pinned to their chest or carried small American flags on tiny sticks.Their kids, the grandchildren, the millennials, tended to shy away from anything Trump-specific, sticking exclusively to red-white-and-blue, stars-and-stripes, Fourth-of-July themed clothes. Almost as if they’d committed to the America First message, but still weren’t sure about the messenger.The one thing that cut across generational lines were the MAGA hats. One out of every three supporters, it seemed, was wearing one, and I got the impression that, for some, particularly the kids—who wore them flat-billed or backward—putting on that red MAGA hat was their favorite part of being a Trump supporter.There was only one person, out of all those thousands in line, whose attire appeared to represent an opposition viewpoint, and it sure as hell wasn’t me. I’d left my “Repeal and Go F$%K Yourself” shirt back home, instead going with a red IU basketball tee (Hoosier hoops being one of the last unifying symbols left in the state of Indiana).Sandwiched between an old white guy with a plug of chewing tobacco in his cheek and a young white man in a button-up dress shirt and wraparound black glasses, stood a solitary woman dressed in a simple ankle-length red dress, with an attached red cloak that appeared to be made out of a bedsheet. Her head, bowed in silence, was obscured by a white bonnet, and her hands were folded in front of her stomach.Karen B. Supak grew up the daughter of a historian in southern Mississippi. She used to get lessons on nonviolent resistance whenever the family crossed over the bridge in Selma on their way to visit her grandmother in Alabama. In high school, she was a punk rock kid who was refused service for the way she was dressed and eventually fled for California, to UC Berkeley, arriving on campus on the eve of the 30th anniversary of the free speech movement. She’s been peacefully protesting various civil-rights affronts since the Rodney King verdict back in ’91.Never like this though. Never embedded with the opposition, dressed as a symbol of their oppression, and committed to a vow of silence (she had a brief statement written out on her phone explaining who she was and her purpose, in case anyone asked). The change in approach was out of necessity. Karen, who lives in Evansville, has a 16-year-old son, a budding Trump supporter, who wanted to see the president speak.“He’s a 16-year-old white boy who lives in southwestern Indiana and comes from a family of privilege,” Karen would explain later, laughing at the irony of it all. “I can absolutely see the attraction if you were growing up in a privileged position in America these days, and seeing the president and going, ‘Oh, he can get away with acting however he wants to, and he looks a lot like me.’”Besides, she acknowledged, she was at least partly to blame. Back in 2016, in an attempt to expose the then-14-year-old to both sides, she’d taken him to a Bernie Sanders rally in Bloomington and then to the Trump rally in Evansville. It was his choice from there.Karen had no problem with her son cutting school to stand in line for the rally with a few of his friends, on one condition: She wanted to go with him. She wanted to hear what the president had to say to her teenage son. Which put her in a predicament. Under no circumstance was she willing to be mistaken as a Trump supporter, a hard thing to accomplish while standing in line for a Trump rally, as she discovered back in 2016 when she was heckled multiple times for not engaging in various chants. That was the other problem. Karen could be vocal in her opposition, especially when people were being rude or ugly. She’d only made it 20 minutes into Trump’s speech last time before her son had to pull her out of there. “You’re freaking out, Mom. Let’s go,” he told her, after she became agitated to the point of disturbing those around her by not-so-quietly muttering under her breath.The homemade handmaid’s costume, then, was the perfect solution for both problems. Not only did it allow her to very clearly distinguish herself from the Trump supporters, but the vow of silence—meant to replicate the subjugation of women in Trump’s patriarchy—gave her an excuse to keep her mouth shut.As I weaved in and out of the crowd, I noted a handful of reporters lurking across the street with their cameras or notepads, darting into the line to do a quick interview or shoot some b-roll. But the Right Side Broadcasting Network crew—a five-person outfit consisting of a cameraman, three young, red-clad female reporters, and a bearded guy in a seersucker suit—were right in the middle of it and had been the entire afternoon. The network rose to prominence in the summer of 2015 by live-streaming wall-to-wall coverage of Trump’s primary rallies, and in late October 2016, less than a month before the general election, the Trump campaign teamed up with RSBN to produce pre- and post-debate analysis shows that were then streamed on Trump’s Facebook page. The partnership prompted a New York Magazine headline to ask the following day: “Did Trump TV Premiere Last Night?”But then Donald Trump won. There was no longer a need for Trump TV, not with Fox News handling those duties. The original content RSBN produced flopped—hiring a white nationalist to host the flagship show wasn’t a great idea—and a staff of 14 had dwindled to four. But they were still at it, still covering rallies like the state media they aspired to be. And while their pregame coverage—six hours of live, unedited interviews with Trump supporters—was rough and amateurish, striking in its lack of depth or neutrality, watching it offers perhaps the truest portrait of who those people standing in line really were. And so I offer a sample:“We have so much in common with each person standing here,” said Randall, a dog breeder from southern Minnesota, pointing at his fellow “Front Row Joes,” a group of strangers who had met—and in some cases come together—over their love of attending Donald Trump rallies. Randall had been in line since the night before, and with his American flag cowboy hat and full-sized MAGA flag, he was the group’s de facto head cheerleader. His voice was hoarse as he spoke to the RSBN reporter. Informing her that his dog, Donald Trump, had knocked up one of his other dogs, Miss America, and that he was selling the puppies. He then explained why he was attending his 38th rally.“When President Trump comes out onto that stage, he inspires us,” Randall said, his voice cracking with emotion. “And hopefully we inspire him back, to keep working, keep fighting for us, because the man is tough, and he’s doing it, but he needs us to inspire him back. It’s a two-way street.” Randall pointed again at his fellow Front Row Joes. “It’s beautiful.”Casey, an unemployed laborer from southern Illinois, about two-and-a-half hours away, was attending his first ever Trump rally, but that hadn’t stopped the MAGA-hat-wearing newbie from joining Randall in waving the flag and leading cheers. “I’ve done it many times in my dreams,” he joked to the reporter, who followed up by asking what specifically had him so fired up.“Well, I’ll tell you what’s firing me up is the fact that you can understand this President. He’s not shooting the bs,” Casey declared, in a loud, booming voice. “That’s it, that’s the bottom line.”Ted, a farmer and mechanic from about two hours west of Evansville, had been in line since 11 a.m. He was also attending his first Trump rally, and while he was certainly a supporter of the president, it was his wife who was crossing something off her bucket list. He was a little hot, a little sticky in his blue jeans and plaid shirt, but otherwise enjoying the atmosphere.“Our president has a lot of really fantastic qualities,” stated the reporter. “Do you have a favorite?”Ted paused for a second, contemplating the question. “Well, I hope he’s for the farmers,” he said, a little carefully, adding that he wants more money for his grain. “We want to eat cheap in America,” he explained, “so you got to have support for the farmers. He’s looking out for us—I hope.” When asked what drew him to the president, Ted echoed the sentiments of Casey: “He shoots straight from the hip, you know. He’s not bs-ing around about it. Some people don’t like it, but you don’t play the fence. You’re either on one side or the other.”Lorenz, an Indiana native, wasn’t as interested in policy. Sporting an oversized black Q-Anon shirt, he shifted nervously from one foot to the other, thumbs tucked into his balled fists, as the male RSBN reporter asked what he was most interested in hearing the president talk about. Lorenz gave a quick, uncomfortable glance at the camera and shifted his weight. “Basically,” he said, his eyes darting again to the camera, “let’s stop the Deep State from doing what they’re doing through the lamestream media.”There were plenty of women in attendance too—a lot of sweet Southern ladies who loved the president unconditionally and who were thrilled at the opportunity to be in his presence. “I feel like I’m going to the beach,” said one shockingly pale woman. “I’m just so excited to see him.”One of the more unabashed and vocal female supporters was Carol from nearby Santa Claus, Indiana (it’s a real place: home of Holiday World and Jay Cutler). She was sitting in a folding chair up against the side of a building, a Diet Pepsi in the cup holder, when she was approached for an interview.Carol was tired and hot, she admitted, and regretted wearing black. She wanted to wear her red Trump shirt, but her and her husband George had been in court earlier that morning (“We own rental property, and it’s been a bit of a problem,” she confided on camera, before George cut her off). Her grandson went to University of Evansville, and he had a huge Trump banner hanging in his dorm room that everyone kept telling him to take down.“Wow, wow. Cool, cool,” the RSBN reporter said, jumping in. “So tell me, is this your first President Trump rally?”Carol nodded, emphatically. “This is my first time, and I’m having a ball. I just love it!” She laughed, a crackling smoker laugh, and grabbed the reporter by the wrist pulling the mic closer toward her mouth. “Even though I’m 76 years old, had open-heart surgery, got steel in my hip, I’m here to support Trump!” She held out a Trump hat that had been sitting on her lap and pointed at the name on the front like a recent NBA draft pick, allowing the reporter to wrestle back control of the mic.“And what are you hoping to hear him speak on?”“Oh, I don’t care,” Carol answered, without hesitation. “He’s good. He’s done more in two years than our past president could do in eight years.” She looked at the camera and beamed. “I’m drinking to that!”“Yes! Definitely!” the reporter exclaimed. “And what’s your favorite quality about President Trump?”“He’s honest,” Carol answered, again without hesitation. “He tells the truth. He’s not a politician. He’s not all about money—I need this and that. He’s more about the American people, and I really and truly think if we give Trump a chance,” her hand was clenched into a fist, and her voice was rising, “he WILL make America great again.”“Yes!”“I have no education,” Carol declared. “But we’re 100 percent for Mr. Trump!”When I saw the crowd spilling out onto the patio of Kevin’s Backyard Grill, right across from the arena—not to mention the “$4 Domestic Drafts” scrawled on the chalkboard propped up on the sidewalk—I knew where I could kill some time. Narrow and dark, even with full sun outside, the place featured a long wooden bar to one side, a stage for rock bands to the other, and in between was filled with Trump supporters conversing, laughing, guzzling 32-ounce domestic drafts and chowing down on baskets of loaded tots and boats of buffalo chicken dip. I slid onto a stool at the bar, ordering up some tater tots and a Coors Light from the sweating, smiling bartender, who was quick on the draw. I took a big gulp, then another, and did a half-swivel, surveying the scene.This all felt very familiar. The place was overflowing with Trump apparel and related paraphernalia, all of it in the home team’s colors of red, white, and blue. Even the servers and bartenders were dressed in matching dark-blue Trump/Pence 2020 T-shirts, although I wasn’t sure if they were true supporters or just looking for bigger tips. A group of college-age girls in American flag bandanas and jean shorts flirted with a couple of Trump bros in the corner. Next to me, an older gentleman in a “Don’t Tread on Me” hat argued with his Dale-Jr.-shirt-wearing buddy about those “SOB NFL players” who kneel during the national anthem.It was exactly like being at a bar in downtown Indy before a Colts or Pacers game. People were crammed against the back of my stool, shouting out orders while the bartender paced the rail, pointing and pouring, the noise level ramping up incrementally with each shot thrown back. It was a joyful, anticipatory atmosphere, and when my loaded tater tots came, I ordered another beer and settled in with a smile on my face.In that moment, dipping tots in ranch and sipping Coors, I have to admit that I felt one with the people in that bar. As long as I sat there watching Around the Horn on mute, bathing in the buzz of the place, I could forget what everyone was there for. For that hour, they ceased to be Trump supporters, and I was no longer a Trump hater. We were just a group of half-drunk, totally stuffed Americans headed to a big event. And I’d be lying if I said I didn’t share in their excitement. We were about to see the president of the United States speak in person. Did that not still mean anything? Had Trump so sullied the office that it no longer meant anything to be in its presence? I certainly didn’t feel that way. Right then I was thinking this would be something I’d tell my kids about someday.The bartender, a friendly, goateed guy in his thirties, caught the attention of the man crammed next to me. The guy was a regular and they started chatting. The bartender wasn’t supposed to be in until that afternoon, but his manager had called him in at 10. The regular laughed and nodded as a guy with bowling ball shoulders caught the bartender’s attention with a $100 bill. “Hey man, can you make change for this?”“Oh hell yeah,” the bartender said, wiping his hands on what was definitely a crisp new Trump shirt, reaching into his tip jar. “Been a good day!”When I was 12 years old, Reggie Miller pulled off one of the most miraculous comebacks in sports history. I remember exactly where I was when it happened: I’d been sitting in my parents Toyota Previa minivan, slowly strapping on my soccer shin guards, listening on the radio as the Pacers fell behind by six points with 18 seconds left to go against the New York Knicks, a playoff series that had been dubbed “Hicks versus Knicks” by the New York media.When the Knicks pushed the lead to six, I’d slid open the Previa’s door so forcefully it shook the window glass and started trudging toward the soccer field, head down and kicking grass. I didn’t get far. “Oh my God! Aaahhh!” I heard my mom scream as I turned around in a panic. My dad was hanging out the driver’s side window, waving me to come back: “He did it! He did it! He did it!”Eight points in nine seconds. That’s what Reggie Miller had done—and even 23 years later, it stands as one of the single greatest comebacks in the history of professional basketball. From that day until he retired a decade later, if there was time on the clock and #31 was on the court, the Pacers still had a chance. No subsequent failure to execute—and Miller had plenty of big misses—could ever shake that feeling.I was reminded of all this in the moments after leaving the Backyard Grill. I’d exited at the corner of Main and Sixth Street, diagonal from the entrance to the Ford Center, stepping out into the sunlight with a hand shielding my eyes. The doors to the venue were finally open, and the line was moving, glacially, as Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believing” blared from the speakers. The side streets were packed with people milling about, shopping the row of tables and tents selling unofficial merch, and the smell of hot dogs hung in the air. I made my way over toward the huge videoboard that had been set up outside the arena, where on-screen a highlight reel of the president’s shocking election-night upset played on a loop, eliciting a cheer from those in line every time the Fox News desk called Pennsylvania for Donald J. Trump.That’s when it hit me: Donald Trump was Reggie Miller. I tried to push the thought away, but the comparison was sitting there, too ripe to ignore. Like Miller, Donald Trump was from the coast, but not necessarily of the coast, and both men were mocked back home before being embraced by working-class underdogs in the Midwest. Both were loud and brash, hated by their opponents, and each came to embody the middle of the country’s resentment of all things big city and bright lights. They both also enjoyed, to great effect, using the media to lash out and provoke the very coastal establishment that had rejected them.And, most importantly, both pulled off miracles so unbelievable that it earned them a lifetime’s worth of belief in their powers.The night that the Fox News hosts announced the results of Pennsylvania, guaranteeing Trump one of the most improbable victories in the history of politics — it was the equivalent of Miller’s eight points in nine seconds in Madison Square Garden. It was confirmation that not everything was rigged against the average, mid-market Midwest American, that David’s stone could still fell the giant if there was enough momentum behind it.Journey had given way to Neil Young’s “Rockin’ in the Free World,” as I pushed through the crowd and out the other side, in search of the thousands of protesters the local paper had promised. Apparently there were two main groups gathering pre-rally, each getting hyped separately before marching toward the Ford Center and joining together as one unified protest. How perfectly symbolic, I thought, heading north of downtown in search of Memorial Baptist Church, searching for the group led by activists from the Sierra Club, Indivisible, Beyond Coal, Our Revolution, and the Tri-State LBGTQ Alliance.Maybe it was the beers or just my unfamiliarity with the city, but I couldn’t find Memorial Baptist Church for the life of me. I was nearly a mile north of downtown before doubling back toward Locust and Ninth, where the other group, led by the Vanderburgh County Democratic Party, was meeting in a grassy area by a parking lot. There were maybe 75 people milling around in front of the parking lot, signs at their side, talking quietly. They were scattered and broken into mini groups of three or four, and as I made my way with ease through the crowd, I picked up bits and pieces of conversations, most of which centered around one prominent political figure: Joe Donnelly. And it wasn’t in a “we support Joe” sort of way. More like, as a kindly-looking woman with short silver hair put it: “What the hell is Donnelly doing?”You have to feel for Joe Donnelly. After replacing Richard Lugar, a six-term senator and lodestar of moderate Republicanism, Donnelly spent his first four years in office crafting an image as a moderate, bipartisan compromiser, just like that of his predecessor. In fact, according to the Bipartisan Index, a lifetime ranking of senators conducted by none other than The Lugar Center, Joe Donnelly ranked as the second most bipartisan senator since 1993 (Lugar ranked #26, by the way). To put his bipartisanship in perspective, he voted with President Trump 62 percent of the time in 2017—more support than he gave Obama during his last year in office. Put another way, if Joe Donnelly were any more bipartisan, he’d be Todd Young.And then along came Trump, smashing the middle ground like a one-legged drunk in a China shop, leaving Donnelly to flail his arms and kick his feet like Wile E. Coyote run off a cliff. One minute he’s voting to fund the wall and roll back Dodd-Frank and ban abortions after 20 weeks; the next, he’s saving health care and going against the tax bill and putting sanctions on Russia. The end result is that for the past two years, Donnelly has done nothing but piss people off. Those on the right can’t understand why he would ever vote against the president, while those on the left don’t get why he ever wouldn’t. Both sides hold the same thing against him.The vibe I got from the protesters was that Trump supporters were a lost cause. Now that the president was openly supporting Donnelly’s opponent Mike Braun in the midterm, there was no hope in winning their vote. What Joe needed to be doing, as the Democrat sitting atop the state ticket, was turn out the base. Not reach across the aisle for a hand that wasn’t even extended. It was an angle I agreed with, prior to coming here. But standing in that mostly open field listening to a few scattered protesters arguing among themselves, and then comparing that to the line I’d seen winding through downtown, I was starting to see things a little differently.I mean, what the hell were we going to do about it? Vote for Mike Braun?I’d stopped by the hotel to drop off my backpack and was now speed-walking down Main Street with my notebook and a pen tucked behind my ear, ready to finally enter the belly of the beast. It was still warm and humid out, but the sun was beginning to fade over the horizon, filling the sky with a burning red hue that was, depending on your perspective, either beautiful or ominous.Just as I passed by Angelo’s, a quaint-looking Italian bistro with a “Make Angelo’s Great Again” sidewalk sign, two shirtless boys, maybe 10, 11 years old, came riding up the sidewalk on their bikes. The front one, the bigger of the two, his dirty blonde hair shaped into the beginnings of a mullet and blowing behind him, fixed me with a menacing squinty-eyed tough-guy look.“Make America great again!” he spat, breezing past me on the shared sidewalk.His friend, shorter, scrawny, buzz-headed, was trailing 10 yards behind and breathing heavily. “MAGA!” he huffed, standing up to pick up the pace as he passed.I did a double take, not entirely sure what the hell just happened. It sorta felt like I’d been threatened. Like the neighborhood bully and his sidekick had just warned me to watch my back in these parts. I laughed, a little uneasily. Were the kids all right?Standing in line in front of the Ford Center, watching Lara Trump, wife of Eric, inform us from the videoboard that “President Trump supports the First Amendment as much as he does the Second” but that “some people have taken advantage of that,” word began to ripple through the crowd that the cops were shutting the doors. Nobody else was getting in. I looked around, and for the first time all day, people weren’t smiling.A guy in his early thirties wearing a blue polo shirt wandered over to where I was standing in line, a couple hundred yards from the now-closed entrance. “Hey did you guys have tickets?!” he asked, a bit wild-eyed, to nobody in particular. When it was confirmed that everyone in the general vicinity did, he became agitated. “Me too!” he exclaimed, throwing his arms out wide. “What was the freakin’ point?!” The man had left work early and driven three hours from St. Louis to be there, he told us, speeding the whole way. Others voiced similar stories, joining what was becoming a chorus of complaint.“How the fuck are they printing more tickets than they have seats?”“If this were Luke Bryan at 80 bucks a pop, you can bet they’d find some room!”“Let’s charge the gates!” (said to a big laugh)Elton John’s “Candle in the Wind” began playing over the PA system, and Lara Trump was replaced by another highlight reel of Trump’s election-night miracle. A deeply tanned, heavily-muscled man with a lumberjack beard who’d been listening to the growing discord tried to explain the issue away. He heard some people had made copies of the tickets and then passed them out to friends. That’s why there were thousands now left standing outside. It wasn’t Trump’s fault.I desperately wanted to argue, to say of course the Trump campaign had given out more free tickets than they had room for. Why wouldn’t they? They had no clue how many people would actually show up. It’s one thing to download a free ticket, quite another to actually show up. But also: The Trump campaign wanted an overflow crowd. That’s why they’d set up the videoboard on top of the trailer. They wanted thousands of people left outside watching on the Jumbotron, so that Trump could then reference the thousands of people outside watching on the Jumbotron. It wasn’t nefarious. It was just Trump, the businessman and marketer, doing what he does best. And still they made excuses.“Man,” said blue polo shirt, fully accepting Lumberjack’s explanation. “That’s bullshit.” Lumberjack nodded, and they both turned to look up at the Jumbotron.Off in the distance came the faint echo of an angry chant, and for the briefest of seconds, I thought it was Trump supporters rising up in protest, demanding to be let in. “Let us in! Let us in!” I swear that’s what I heard, as I began moving in that direction. But as I got closer and the scene unfolded, I realized I’d been mistaken.It was the protesters. Hundreds of them. I’d written them off after the underwhelming showing at the Democratic party pre-rally, but apparently the group led by the activists had turned out. They were piled four and five deep the length of a city block down Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., almost all of them with signs. It was heartening to see, and I smiled as I took in the volume and variety of signage. There were short signs (“TRE45ON”) and long signs (“SuperCallousFragileRacistSexistNaziPOTUS”). There were sincere signs (“God Bless Our Free Press”) and familiar signs (“Black Lives Matter”). There were signs that suggested a little oversight (“Someone Take Away His Phone!”) and others that demanded coarser action (“Eat My Ass, Trump!”). There was even a sign about all the signs (“Not Usually a Sign Guy, But Geez.”)On the other side of the street, the side I was on, a growing crowd of Trump supporters had begun to gather. The protesters were chanting angrily and throwing expletive-laced invectives across the street, while the Trump supporters mostly just looked on in bemusement and laughed. To them, the whole thing was one big LOL. Here were hundreds of truly pissed-off liberals, forehead veins throbbing, calling them awful names from just 50 yards away, and the Trump supporters were laughing like they’d all just eaten a pot cookie and gone to the state fair.In the middle of it all, forming a human barricade, were police officers from varying patrols: beat cops, bike cops, even mounted police, helmeted officers sitting high on their horses, hands on their batons. One serious-looking sniper, muscles bursting out of his flak jacket, rifle at the ready—it was filled with bean-bag bullets, I’m pretty sure—stood on the curb in front of the Trump supporters, his sunglass-covered eyes scanning the opposite side of the street.Right in front of him, almost as if he were guarding it, protecting it from those on the left, was a splatter of horse shit.“You’re a fucking tool, bro!” One exchange toward the far end of the line caught my attention, and I moved closer to watch.On the left side was a trio of older black guys, probably in their early forties. They were on the curb and yelling at a Trump supporter, also a black guy, who was wearing a red Trump-Pence 2020 shirt and laughing. In his hand he held a small sign reading: “Blacks for Trump.”“And your boy, he’s the worst of the worst,” called out the ringleader of the protesters, sporting a white T-shirt with the message “F$#K RACIST TRUMP” handwritten on the front. A small smile jumped at the corners of his mouth, and he shot a glance at the line of officers. “I hope he leaves here and gets hit by a fucking car!”I wasn’t sure exactly who he was referring to, but those sounded like fighting words to me. The Blacks for Trump supporter, however, just laughed and shook his head. “You know what he go home to?”“What?” the ringleader fired back, mean-mugging.The man paused for a second, suddenly unsure of himself. “He, uh,” the crowd was starting to close in, people had their phones out. “He go home to a two-million-dollar mansion—” The three protesters were howling before he could get the sentence out, smacking each other in the chest, clowning. The Blacks for Trump guy raised his voice to be heard. “And I go home to a three-million-dollar mansion! Got two or three Rolls Royces!”The conversation devolved into unintelligible crosstalk at that point, and I was only able to make out the occasional insult through all the shouting:At that point, the Blacks for Trump guy’s friend showed up, and holy shit, I recognized him. I’d seen him on TV at another rally, standing right behind the president and cheering wildly while wearing a white T-shirt that read… I moved around to the side to get a better angle, and yep, it was him. Same gold chain, same sunglasses perched on top of the same permed hair. And most definitely the same T-shirt proclaiming, in bold, black letters, “Trump & Republicans Are Not Racist.”Now it all made sense.Burnout in the workplace isn’t uncommon, and it’s not pleasant, either. Data from the American Institute of Stress suggests that 80 percent of U.S. workers feel stressed out about their jobs, with 40 percent in roles that are “very” or “extremely” stressful.People in high-intensity jobs, like those in the medical profession or law enforcement, are particularly prone to burnout, but they’re by no means the only ones who suffer from it. Across the professional spectrum, burnout can be caused by any number of factors: Long hours, conflicts with management, and overall job frustration are just some of the things that can leave any worker feeling like they’re on the brink of mental, emotional, or physical collapse.The easiest cure is also the most obvious: Take some time off. Going on a trip or setting aside a few days at home to refresh can temporarily reset your stress clock. But not everyone has the vacation days or financial means to make an escape, so you may need an alternative way to fight off the job scaries. Here are some ways to get yourself back on track when you can’t get away.The first step toward treating burnout is recognizing it for what it is. “There are three big signs of burnout,” says psychologist Ellen Hendriksen, author of How to Be Yourself: Quiet Your Inner Critic and Rise Above Social Anxiety. The first, emotional exhaustion, “is exactly what it sounds like: a sense of being drained and unmotivated and tired, both physically and psychologically. It gives you the sense of moving through mud.”Another symptom is something called depersonalization, or “a substitution of characteristics for an actual person,” Hendriksen says — for example, “nurses might start to refer to a patient as ‘the heart attack in Room Eight,’ or a psychologist might refer to a client as ‘that OCD guy.’” You stop seeing the people you work with as people and instead start to see them as burdens, which builds up a mounting sense of resentment.The last big sign of burnout, Hendriksen says, is losing the ability to focus. “[It’s] basically taking more time and energy to accomplish less,” she says. “If you’re noticing, ‘I’m working hard and really long hours but accomplishing a lot less than I used to,’ that’s a red flag.”Burnout, in many ways, feels similar to depression. But while the two share many traits, burnout tends to be more situational than depression’s all-encompassing state of gray. “If people feel like an anvil has landed on them at work but perk up at their soccer league or cooking class, then it is likely not depression,” Hendriksen says. “Depression colors every area of life, but burnout can be more job-specific. It bleeds over, but there is some contrast.”It sounds like an old cliché, but sleep, exercise, and proper nutrition can do wonders for your mood and stress levels.Unfortunately, burnout can cause you to swap out good habits for bad ones, which creates a vicious cycle. “Take an inventory of how much you might be drinking, or how much sleep you’re getting, or how much screen time you’re consuming, to try to make over any bad habits that have crept in because you’re feeling sluggish or unmotivated,” Hendriksen says. “It’s really easy to let job burnout and resentment turn into a ‘what the hell’ attitude when it comes to our personal habits.” It can be tempting to mitigate unhappiness at work with lots of boozy happy hours and midday candy breaks, but the physical benefits of eating and sleeping well outweigh the temporary burst you’ll get from short-term fixes.You should also try to cut down on screen time once you clock out, especially if you have a job that already requires a lot of screen time. The blue light emanating from your phone and computer can mess with your circadian rhythms, making it harder for you to fall asleep and leaving you feeling slightly jet-lagged. Screens can also cause eye strain, leading to headaches and increased feelings of fatigue. Consider swapping out your Netflix binges for time with friends, long walks, or other activities that keep you away from electronics for at least a few hours.Robert Taibbi, a licensed clinical social worker and the author of several books on mental health, says it’s important to suss out how your specific workplace habits might be affecting your happiness. “It’s about looking at your personality,” Taibbi says. “What does your job require? How much into control are you? Do you have a hard time delegating and getting help on things? Do you get obsessed because you tend to be perfectionistic?” If you tend to procrastinate, for instance, endlessly battling last-minute deadlines might be the root of your burnout. If you feel like you’ve taken on too much but don’t want to assign tasks to others, maybe that’s what’s causing your issues.Alter these habits accordingly, either on your own or with the help of a manager. For instance, at a former blogging job, I started to have trouble finishing posts before the end of the day. Though I was super productive in the morning, I’d lose focus after lunch and struggle to make up for lost time through the afternoon. My boss and I restructured my schedule so I’d log on from home a little earlier in the morning, file a couple posts, and then come in. That schedule allowed me to take advantage of my most productive hours and also broke up my day, so that by the time I came into the office, I wasn’t restless from feeling like I’d been sitting at my desk for too long.Hendriksen says it’s helpful to envision your perfect work environment, then take small, realistic steps to bring your reality closer to what you’re picturing. “People can fundamentally love their job and know they’re in the right field, but they might be overworked,” she says. “Perhaps you can try to justify an assistant. If you’re dealing with a long commute, perhaps you can work from home a few days a week. Work strategically to align your ideal workplace environment and duties with the actual one.”If work has started to drain your energy, Hendriksen says it’s important to identify activities that replenish it and focus on those activities in your off-hours. Socializing with friends is generally considered a good antidote to the drudgery of a working day, but if that doesn’t lift you up, perhaps you’d prefer to spend your off-hours reading a good book, or cooking, or taking a Spanish class.Just make sure it’s something you want to do and not something you think you should do. “It’s important to make sure it’s something you honestly, really believe would be fun,” Hendriksen says. “We so often do things that are good for us, but then it becomes another chore, even if ostensibly it would be fun.”And remember to separate you from your work life. Taibbi says people who suffer from burnout tend to tie their identities more strongly to their jobs. “Ideally, you want to be diversified. You want to have multiple baskets to pull from,” Taibbi says. “If all your self-esteem and identity go into one job, your risk of burnout goes up, because you’re anxious the basket is going to get turned over.”Sometimes, no matter how hard you try to make the best of job burnout, you really just need time off.“If you’re at the point where you are sacrificing your health for work, that is a sign. That never gets better on its own,” Hendriksen says. “That’s your body telling you that this is not a good match.” If you can’t get out of bed, for instance, or your blood pressure is spiking, or you’re suffering from regular stress headaches or not eating, it’s important to step away. Talk to your supervisor about going on leave or borrowing vacation days from next year, or promise to make up the time you’ll be out. Just make it clear how much you need this break, and then do what you can to get it.Taibbi suggests that even taking one day off might help get you back on track. “That’s when people say, ‘I’m going to take a mental health day,’” he said. “It’s when [your] productivity starts to fall apart because you just showed up at work and can’t plow through it.” You and your employer will both be better off if you can get back the energy you need to actually do your job.For five decades, conservatives have claimed the moral high ground in judicial matters, claiming that they are simply interpreting the Constitution as it was written by our Founding Fathers — what they call an originalist approach. But conservative justices’ decisions are no less shaped by their worldview than progressives’.In 2008, for instance, for the first time in U.S. history, the five conservative justices on the Roberts court declared a local gun control ordinance to be unconstitutional — a violation of the Second Amendment. In 2010, these same justices found that corporations have the right to spend unlimited amounts of money in election campaigns. In 2013, they invalidated a federal civil rights law in the area of race — a key provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 — for the first time since the 19th century.By any measure, all these cases were based on the ideology and values of the conservative Republican justices, not the text or the original meaning of the Constitution. It is laughable to say that the framers of the First Amendment intended that corporations should be able to spend unrestricted sums from their campaign treasuries to get candidates elected or defeated. Those who wrote the First Amendment did not envision campaign spending as it exists today, let alone modern corporations. Additionally, each decision-overruled precedent invalidated a law that was enacted with overwhelming support, broadly decided a matter when a narrow ruling was possible, and did so to advance conservative political values.It’s time for progressives to fight back by offering an alternative vision of constitutional interpretation and constitutional law based on fulfilling the Constitution’s promise of liberty and justice for all. Progressives need to expose how conservatives are using the Constitution to advance their own agenda, which favors business over consumers and employees and government power over individual rights.The first step must be to refute the conservatives’ legal notion of “originalism,” whereby all constitutional issues, including such controversial questions as the death penalty or affirmative action, can be resolved based solely on the original text of the Constitution and its meaning at the time it was written. Conservatives maintain that this allows justices to decide cases without imposing their own values. That is nonsense. There is no such thing as “value-neutral judging.” It is a myth that conservatives have advanced for decades and continue to espouse for their own purposes.But it is not enough to reveal the conservatives’ false promise of judicial neutrality. Progressives must offer their own vision for what the Constitution should be understood to mean. The document should be interpreted to fulfill its central values. Therefore, it is essential to begin by identifying the core underlying values that the Constitution is meant to achieve. The place to start is at the very beginning, with the Preamble, which articulates the purposes for the document. The Preamble states: “We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.”Unfortunately, the Preamble has been largely ignored in Supreme Court decisions and scholarly writings. It has been treated as a mere rhetorical flourish to the Constitution. But, on the contrary, it is much more: It provides a lens through which the Constitution can be examined, articulating the basic values of the document that follows.I, of course, am not making an argument that I know the intent of the framers of the Constitution in these areas. Their intent cannot be known and should not limit contemporary constitutional law. The Constitution must be adapted to the problems of each generation; we are not living in the world of 1787 and should not pretend that the choices for that time can guide ours today. Chief Justice John Marshall expressed this realization almost 200 years ago when he said that “we must never forget that it is a Constitution we are expounding,” a Constitution “meant to be adapted and endure for ages to come.”Given Donald Trump’s election, it is not likely that my vision will be adopted in the immediate future. But that’s not the point. Conservatives, in their think tanks and Federalist Society cliques, have spent years articulating and elaborating a conservative vision of constitutional law and the role of the Supreme Court. They did this even during years when conservatives were out of power. Liberals may have thought it futile to create a different and progressive vision with conservative justices in the majority on the Supreme Court for the past 45 years. Perhaps, too, progressives have been wedded for too long to the Warren court’s vision and not thought enough beyond it. The Warren court ended almost a half-century ago, in 1969, and it made huge strides in ending segregation and expanding the rights of criminal defendants. But now is the time to provide and defend and fight for an alternative, grander, and more inclusive interpretation of the Constitution.The Preamble to the Constitution clearly states the values that the document is meant to achieve: ensuring democratic governance, providing effective government, establishing justice, and securing liberty. Added to these values should be furthering equality, not something that was mentioned in the Preamble to a Constitution which protected the institution of slavery.There is much that progressives can fight for to fulfill each of these values. We need to create an election system that is far more democratic, including ending partisan gerrymandering, lessening the likelihood that the Electoral College will choose presidents who lose the popular vote, and combating disenfranchisement of minority voters.Establishing justice requires finally eliminating the death penalty, which is inflicted in an arbitrary and racially discriminatory manner. There must be a better system of ensuring that those who are accused of crimes have competent counsel.Securing liberty requires that there must greater constitutional protection of privacy. This includes more safeguards against government intrusions, better protection against information gathering by the government, and continued protection of basic aspects of autonomy, including reproductive autonomy.Looking at the Constitution in a progressive way would produce a very different approach, one that would do much more to provide liberty and justice for all. In most areas, it would not take more than the shift of a single justice to create decisions pointing constitutional law in a fairer direction that does much more to realize the promise of the Preamble and the Constitution. Maybe the unexpected will happen and there will be a progressive majority on the Supreme Court sooner than I or anyone expects. If not, some changes can be accomplished through legislative action at the federal or state levels; much can be done under state constitutional law when the Supreme Court and federal courts do not act.It is so tempting to look at the composition of the Supreme Court as a historic inevitability. But in reality, it is a product of coincidences between the timing of vacancies and who is in the White House. If Hubert Humphrey rather than Richard Nixon won in 1968—and it was a very close election—then a Democratic president would have picked four new justices between 1969 and 1971, and that would have continued a liberal majority on the court for decades more. If Al Gore or John Kerry had been president in 2005, when William Rehnquist and Sandra Day O’Connor left the Supreme Court, there would be five justices appointed by Democratic presidents on the court today, notwithstanding the election of Donald Trump, the appointment of Neil Gorsuch, and the resignation of Anthony Kennedy. If Hillary Clinton had been elected president — and she did win the popular vote by 3 million votes — and had replaced Antonin Scalia, the next years and perhaps decades of constitutional law would be vastly different.So I think it is important to step away from the current composition of the Supreme Court and focus instead on what should be the meaning of the Constitution itself. How should progressives interpret this majestic but flawed document? The Constitution, and how it is interpreted, affects all of us, often in the most intimate and important aspects of our lives. It should be interpreted to create a nation where there truly is liberty and justice for all.The Center for American Politics and Design built an archive of every 2018 campaign logo, and its banality is disorienting. In a moment of such division and upheaval, how can the visual landscape remain so uniform?You might notice that there are a few differences in the details. Democrats use slightly more purple, with a near monopoly from the women in the party. Democrats use a bit more blue, Republicans use a bit more red. Etc.When you take a step back, the difference is a matter of degree. Some individual logos may obviously belong to one party or the other — especially if they use purple or green — but collectively, it’s a wash. After all, both sides are equally into serifs, and lord knows how much typography matters.You might wonder if this relates to voter apathy. I do. Many people opt out of the political process because they don’t see a difference between the two major parties. Based on their visual identities, that’s an understandable reaction.By contrast, we’re visually tuned into many other parts of life. We’re surrounded by logos and other symbols that help us define our preferences every time we shop. Some logos stand for who we are and who we want to be, even if the product itself is only a pair of shoes or a phone.Many civic institutions also use visual patterns to great effect. New Mexico has exquisite license plates, for example. The national Great Seal is iconic, even if it’s not quite in step with the latest design trends. (Though you never know, flat design comes in cycles.)It’s also ubiquitous in political movements around the world — old communist propaganda is still recognizable generations later, and the color yellow recently took center stage in Catalonia. A few recent American presidential campaigns have leaned on design as well. Obama’s visual language captured his message and encouraged millions of young to people care about politics for the first time (McCain’s didn’t even try).Clinton’s campaign worked with a highly esteemed designer to develop a winsome, witty, and vaguely corporate logo. Trump used Times New Roman and ALL CAPS to convey his point of view and attitude.Apparently you don’t need access to expensive professionals or publicity consultants to build a compelling visual language. All of this makes it even more striking that, as a whole, our political parties are not visually distinct.Is it good or bad that the parties look so alike? I can’t say. People look for visual clues to make sense of the world, and these logos don’t offer much help. On the other hand, politicians aren’t luxury phones, and strong imagery can be used to fuel division. The commonalities also speak to a set of shared values, which are every bit as real as the points of divergence.Take some time to explore the archive. It’s a fascinating resource, and filled with riddles about the moment you live in. What do you notice?The fact that half of all Americans with health insurance get it through their jobs is a true oddity of the U.S. health care system. No other country operates in such a way. Yet surveys show that most people on employer-sponsored health insurance (ESHI) seem to be happy with it. So why shouldn’t we follow the old maxim “If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it?”The Affordable Care Act took that approach. Rather than trying to replace ESHI, the ACA made having health insurance mandatory for employers with 50 or more workers. Yet serious health economists tell us that ESHI is “broke” after all. In fact, they say it is so profoundly dysfunctional that it deserves to be called the “original sin” of the U.S. health care system.ESHI’s biggest problems come down to three things: job lock, which reduces labor mobility of beneficiaries; the fundamental inequity in how benefits disproportionately go to the highest-paid workers; and the increased fragmentation of health care finance that comes from a system administered by thousands of separate employers.This term describes the tendency of employer-sponsored health insurance to discourage people from changing jobs, starting their own businesses, or cutting their hours (usually either to care for family members or move toward retirement). Job lock undermines labor market mobility, makes it harder to match workers to the most suitable jobs, and cuts labor productivity.Almost everyone seems to know at least one friend or relative who has taken a job that wasn’t great for them—or not left such a job—simply because it was the only way for them to get health coverage. A recent New York Times op-ed by former reporter Kurt Eichenwald dives into this experience. Eichenwald has a severe form of epilepsy, and the medication alone costs $50,000 a year. He vividly details 40 years of struggles to secure and keep health insurance. Small employers refused to hire him because he would send the company premium through the roof; he had frightening gaps in coverage and had to appeal to his parents to cover costly emergency room visits; and he recounts the humiliation of having to beg for an entry-level job far below his qualifications just to maintain coverage.Eichenwald’s situation is by no means rare. In the survey cited above, 46 percent of respondents listed health benefits as an important factor in deciding to work for their current employer. That includes 9 percent who reported health coverage was the decisive factor in taking the job. An even greater proportion, 56 percent, said that health insurance affected their decision to stay in their current job.There is much academic literature on the extent of job lock that is summarized well in a 2015 report by Dean Baker and published by the AARP Public Policy Institute. Baker noted that there is wide agreement among investigators that people with ESHI are less likely to change jobs, become self-employed, retire early, or reduce hours of work. Although there are many other factors besides health insurance that influence labor mobility, Baker concluded that even when those complicating factors are accounted for, job lock is a reality.A second criticism of employer-sponsored health insurance is its inequity. Workers with high-paying jobs get most of the benefits while those with lower pay or part-time status get little help.Differences in tax rates are part of the reason. According to data from the Kaiser Family Foundation, a typical ESHI policy with family coverage has a total cost of just under $20,000, of which employers pay about $14,000. Suppose you are a head of household earning $60,000 a year, sufficient to put you in the 25 percent federal tax bracket. Having your employer pay $14,000 of your insurance premium rather than getting that much extra in cash and paying the premium yourself would save you $3,500 in taxes. But if you are a top executive in the 40 percent tax bracket, the tax deductibility of the insurance is worth $5,600.However, according to the Tax Policy Center, some 44 percent of Americans pay no income tax at all—in most cases not because they enjoy massive loopholes but because their income is too low; 60 percent of the non-payers work. Even if they get ESHI, it gives them no tax benefit at all. They would be no worse off if health benefits were not deductible and employers added the cost of their insurance to their cash pay instead.There’s a second factor that adds to the inequity: Low-wage workers, by and large, are not even offered the option of health benefits. Data from the Social Security Administration show that only about one-third of workers in the lowest fifth of the wage distribution are offered health benefits and that less than 20 percent of them accept those offers. In contrast, more than 80 percent of those in the top fifth of the wage distribution are offered health benefits and accept them.Robert Kaestner and Darren Lubotsky, economists at the University of Illinois at Chicago, provide an estimate of the overall inequality of ESHI based on the combined effects of differences in tax rates and differences in offer and acceptance rates. The following chart from their study shows that workers in the bottom fifth of the family income distribution get annual benefits of less than $500 from ESHI while those in the top fifth get benefits averaging $4,500. What’s more, the value of health benefits to well-paid workers grew substantially over the period shown in the chart while the value for the lowest-paid workers decreased slightly.A third problem employer-sponsored health insurance contributes to is fragmentation of health care finance. A policy brief from Brandeis University put it this way:Fragmentation is a problem not only for small employers, who have little bargaining power in purchasing group policies from insurers, but also for larger employers. Many larger employers try to save on health-benefit costs by self-insuring. According to Collective Health, a company that advises employers on their ESHI programs, 79 percent of companies with 200 or more employees were self-insured in 2017, up from 60 percent in 1999.The problem is, companies that self-insure don’t always do a good job of it. Ali Diab, CEO and founder of Collective Health noted this in a post on the company’s blog:Recently, three corporate giants—Amazon, JPMorgan Chase, and Berkshire Hathaway—joined forces to form a combined health care enterprise to manage benefits for their hundreds of thousands of employees. The stock prices of traditional insurers fell when news of the consortium was announced, but many analysts are skeptical of how well it will work. Leemore Dafny, a professor at Harvard Business School, told reporters from the New York Times, “Just because you know an industry is underperforming and you have a lot of money doesn’t mean you have a successful strategy.” Dafny said she was excited to see such serious players take on the problems of ESHI but noted there were numerous examples of outsiders trying, and failing, to succeed in the health care system.When it comes down to hard bargaining, health care providers—including big insurers, hospitals, and drug companies—are less fragmented than employers. Furthermore, health care is what they know best. For employers whose main expertise lies in a number of other areas, health care is only a sideline. Given the structure of the system, providers will always come out ahead, driving up costs for workers and their families, which are the ultimate health care consumers.If employer-sponsored health insurance were a carefully crafted system established with some clear purpose in mind, we might think twice before getting rid of it, but it is not. Instead, people who have tried to trace its origins, like Indiana University’s Aaron Carroll, portray ESHI as an accident of history. Job-linked health benefits first became widespread during World War II when U.S. firms faced both a labor shortage and a wage freeze. Desperate to attract employees, the story goes, they started giving out benefits like health insurance instead of cash raises. The IRS boosted the popularity of ESHI by declaring such benefits to be nontaxable. When President Harry Truman’s attempts to establish a national health care system failed after the war, ESHI became a central element of a complex health care system whose many disparate parts have never fit together well.It really is good news, in a way, that ESHI is already fading away. The latest Employer Benefits Survey from the Kaiser Family Foundation shows that the percentage of employers offering health benefits declined from 68 percent in 2000 to 53 percent in 2017. Meanwhile, employee contributions and deductibles have been steadily increasing.We urgently need something better. It is time to stop putting up with the job lock, the inequities, and the fragmentation that characterize ESHI. Many of the leading ideas for health care reform, including universal catastrophic coverage (my preferred solution) and Bernie Sanders’ Medicare for All (popular among progressives), would replace ESHI altogether. Other reforms, such as the Medicare Extra plan from the Center for American Progress would allow both employers and employees to opt out of ESHI in favor of a fully portable type of insurance. The time to begin the transition is now.There are many ways to live a healthy life. The Health Diaries is a weekly series about the habits that keep notable people living well.David Sinclair is one of the world’s renowned longevity researchers. He believes that one day — sooner rather than later — scientists will be able to treat and even reverse aging. He’s spent the bulk of his career researching the pathways that control aging in the body. Sinclair, a geneticist and professor at Harvard Medical School, has helped identify the role of molecules that are potentially important for longevity, including resveratrol — found in small concentrations in the skin of grapes — and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD), a compound found naturally in the body that declines as we age but may be replenished through supplements.Sinclair is also a co-founder of Life Biosciences, a biopharmaceutical company that is investigating and commercializing treatments for aging. It’s the largest company addressing the eight pathways of what Life Biosciences refers to as age-related decline (ARD). Sinclair and his colleagues want to treat aging as a systemic breakdown of the body, rather than treating symptoms or specific conditions. Sinclair, who lives in Boston with his wife and three children, spoke to Medium about how he incorporates what he’s learned about longevity in the lab into his everyday life.I wake up every morning at 7 a.m., and I definitely need an alarm clock. I’m not morning person.I start the day with homemade yogurt. It’s whole milk with some special bacteria that we put in the oven. It takes 24 hours for it to culture, and it’s better than anything I know that you can buy. I sweeten it up with some stevia and throw some blueberries in there. I haven’t been sick since I started doing that a year ago.I don’t like vegetables, but I am slowly learning to like them more. I try to eat as many as I can for my health. Green or colored vegetables are my preference, not the starchy ones. In part because of their lower caloric level, but also because of their polyphenols—small molecules that have been shown to activate the body against diseases. I also try to avoid mammals. That’s mostly for health reasons.I often miss lunch because I am busy, but if I do eat lunch, I have a small soup or six pieces of sushi. That’s it. I am drinking tea throughout the day to stay hydrated.A typical dinner is a standard family meal, but I stick to small portions, and I don’t go back for seconds. My wife is a great cook. This is my big downfall. We eat as healthy as we can, but we have three kids. Usually it’s something unexpected and delicious.When I turned 40, about 10 years ago, I said no more dessert. Will I taste a little bit? Sure. But I don’t order it at restaurants.I wasn’t the healthiest kid, and I was overweight. I grew up in a household in the 1970s where there were always snacks around, like chips and peanuts. As soon as I got to college and discovered girls, I lost 15 pounds. I’ve kept off the weight since then, and I’ve been very conscious about what I eat, to the point that I drive people crazy.I practice what I discover. I take resveratrol, which we discovered had health properties 15 years ago, and an NAD supplement each day.I think low-calorie diets and fasting are potentially beneficial. It’s been known since 1916 that cutting back calories is beneficial in every organism it’s been tested on — from yeast to worms to mice to monkeys. I think it would be a surprise if we are an exception to that rule. I tried calorie restriction and couldn’t do it. It’s really hard to be hungry all the time. If I’m not hungry and I’m busy, I am quite happy to skip a meal. It’s informal intermittent fasting. I feel strongly that this is one of the strongest areas of longevity research. But I should caution that no one has done a full-scale, long-term clinical trial on this for longevity.It’s pretty hard for me to exercise regularly. I have gym at home, and my son—he’s 11—and I will try to go a couple times a week. I try to get my heart rate up on a treadmill once a week and lift some weights. I do pushups every morning before I go to work. I just feel better having done a little exercise at the beginning of the day, but that’s all I have time for, unfortunately.There’s no downtime in my life right now. It’s all occupied, and there’s no wasted time. If I have any spare time, I spend it with my children. I am in favor of work-life balance, and if someone could teach me how to be a better dad, please let me know. It’s getting harder every year.There’s so much that gets me excited every day. I have a front-row seat on hundreds of labs around the world. I’m very lucky in that way. I am helping bring together the world’s leading scientists in the field of aging. Not just to collaborate on science, but to collaborate on pharmaceutical development and make medicines that help the world. It’s been an incredible journey so far.At Life Biosciences, we are starting new companies every couple months to tackle new aspects of aging. There are eight so far, and we are not slowing down. There’s really new science that I can’t talk about yet, but it gives me a lot of confidence that we are going to see some really cool changes in medicine in our lifetime — if not much sooner than we think.I have an embarrassing confession to make: I kind of like Seth Abramson.Actually, no, not kind of. Fuck it. I like him.I will no longer cower in shame. The college professor, former public defender (and Harvard Law ’01 alum), occasional HuffPost blogger, popularizer of a newish cultural philosophy known as “metamodernism,” published experimental poet, and self-described “horizontal journalist” or “curatorial journalist” counts me among his as-of-this-moment 548,264 Twitter followers.For those who haven’t encountered his work, Abramson is what’s more commonly called a citizen journalist in that he writes about the Russia probe (which he would probably describe as a “Russia-Saudi Arabia-UAE-Qatar-Israel probe”) but is not connected with a major media institution.Or he wasn’t, that is, until he landed a book deal with Simon & Schuster, to the deep annoyance of just about everyone I know in the business.Not me. I’m fine with it. I got my hands on a review copy, and it turns out — contrary to early indications — not to be a collection of his tweets after all. Instead, Proof of Collusion: How Trump Betrayed America is a straightforward 400-plus page distillation of the available reporting on the subject to this point, culled almost entirely from published news articles and court filings, all boiling down to a simple if troubling contention: “Donald Trump and a core group of ten to twenty aids, associates and allies conspired with a hostile foreign power,” as Abramson put it, “to sell that power control over America’s foreign policy in exchange for financial reward and — eventually — covert election assistance.”It is, as the author concedes, merely a “theory of the case” at this point. But it’s the only plausible theory, he adds, that “coordinates with all the existing evidence” and “explains decades of suspicious behavior by Donald Trump, his family, and his closest associates.”Incredible as the story of Trump’s Russian entanglements always sounds when stated plainly, the evidence Abramson assembles is compelling, and we don’t know the half of it. Robert Mueller, presumably, knows more.Proof of Collusion may surprise Abramson’s detractors. Written more in the style of a legal criminal complaint than a potboiler, the book is almost entirely devoid of speculative musing or all-caps melodrama. Readers will search in vain for the juicy West Wing backbiting that made airport best-sellers out of Michael Wolff’s Fire and Fury and Bob Woodward’s Fear. In fact, it’s not even all that entertaining — and that’s to its credit. It’s more like homework. Or more accurately, by pulling together the many strands of a dizzyingly complex story, it offers a meticulous cheat sheet to the homework we should all be doing, diligently prepared by the relentlessly ostracized dork in the front row.I first encountered Abramson via his now infamous “MEGA-THREAD” from March 23, 2017. It boldly alleged: “The plot to sell America’s foreign policy for foreign oil _and_ steal an election in the bargain began at the Mayflower Hotel.” That first tweet out of an eventual 50 — declarative, nervy, unequivocal — went live at 8:45 p.m. that day and has since received over 21,000 likes and nearly as many retweets.The sprawling analysis did seem a touch overblown at the time — with its feverish speculation about the Trump campaign’s last-minute decision to switch the setting for the candidate’s first foreign-policy speech from the National Press Club to a ballroom in the Mayflower Hotel, claiming they needed more space. Abramson maintained that the new venue was smaller, theorizing that the real goal was to find a venue with private VIP areas in which one might, if so inclined, host an exclusive 24-person cocktail reception that would include the ambassadors to three countries (Russia, Italy, and Singapore) that were involved in a massive sale of stock in Rosneft, the Russian oil giant.Nineteen months ago, this seemed like a bit of a stretch. Even though Abramson had laid out his case in seemingly obsessive detail, relying as he does in the book on elements that had been reported in mainstream outlets, the thread did have the breathless tone of a conspiracy theory. And Abramson’s questionable decision to advertise it as a “MEGA-THREAD” was, in terms of Twitter etiquette, a little like wearing Vibram FiveFingers shoes to a Miss Universe after-party.Deadspin pounced, declaring Abramson “the reigning king of diarrhea tweeting” and pointing out a fatal flaw in his reasoning: The Mayflower ballroom is bigger. Whoops.But then, another twist! In short order, Abramson pointed out that actually, no, the speech had taken place not in the grand ballroom but in a different space that was, in fact, smaller, forcing Deadspin to begrudgingly update its post.This stuff is homework, and the nerdy kid is on it.The more critical issue with Abramson’s thread, from a journalistic point of view, was that line about “[selling] America’s foreign policy for foreign oil.” Because while it is alleged in the famous Steele dossier that the Trump team, via Carter Page, had been offered a massive brokerage fee on the Rosneft deal in exchange for loosening sanctions on Russia, it is not yet proven. In fact, Page denied that such a meeting even took place — until months later when he admitted under oath that it had.Was Abramson making a few leaps? Sure. And he’d kind of bared his ass with that “MEGA-THREAD” stuff. It’s not hard to see why Deadspin took the approach it did: Exposing an international criminal conspiracy is really hard. Why bother trying to run it down, and probably failing, when you can scoff at it instead and sound just as smart?The derision was unseemly, though. Abramson’s assertions might not have met the standards of the New York Times or another prestigious outlet — but this was Twitter. A grain of salt is standard equipment. And compared with most of what pours through my feed, this struck me as solid content.In the year and a half since, I pored over quite a few “MEGA-THREADS.” I absorbed Abramson’s analysis of the 2013 Miss Universe pageant and especially the allegations made by Kata Sarka, the former Miss Hungary. I have scrolled, spellbound, through these mostly well-reasoned speculations about the private walkway linking Trump Tower and Carter Page’s offices at 590 Madison; about the decisive pressure campaign against Jim Comey by rogue agents in the FBI’s New York field office; about the curious travels of George Papadopoulos; and about the Trump-Kennedy deal to put Brett Kavanaugh on the Supreme Court.Were they airtight in every detail? I have no fucking clue. But they were good threads, pulling together the reporting of credentialed journalists — reporting that those same journalists were often failing to place thing in context. While I never went so far as to retweet them (brushing off Abramson’s many cringey entreaties to do so), I did find them insightful.That makes me a dupe, according to my colleagues in the media, who made a crusade of trying to shame me and Abramson’s other followers for our innocent habit. A pile-on ensued, in which it seemed just about everyone got in at least one good sucker punch. The New Republic took a shot (“conspiracy mind-set”), followed by the Atlantic’s McKay Coppins (“delusional”), the Atlantic’s David Graham (“bizarre”), Slate (“hyperbolic sleight of hand”), and the Washington Post, which helpfully pointed out that “The New Republic and Atlantic have both dismissed the professor as a conspiracy theorist.”They all warned me off, deploying the deadliest snark in their respective arsenals. I read each one, and then I kept reading Abramson. Sure, he got a little over his skis sometimes — like when he speculated about the identity of the dossier’s “Source E.” But the speculation was labeled as such, and thoughtfully reasoned; you could follow the logic, even dig up the source material if you were so inclined, and decide whether it made sense. Plus, as I said, it was just Twitter, and speculating on Twitter about the biggest and most mind-bogglingly Pynchonesque news story any of us have ever encountered seemed like a perfectly worthy endeavor. And anyway, even the mainstream media makes an occasional mistake.But wow, the shade. Taken together, the mini-genre of Abramson hit-pieces constitute a master class in journalistic smarm. Rather than engaging with the content of his feed, they sought to handcuff him to a brigade of left-leaning conspiracy tweeters with whom he has little in common. They taunted him for being a poet, for being a creative writing professor, and for calling himself an attorney when his membership in the New Hampshire bar was, in fact, classified as “inactive.” And of course, for being thirsty online.Curiously, though, what almost none of them bothered to do, with all the homilies about proper journalistic practice, was reach out to him for comment.“I totally would talk to them, and they wouldn’t be able to write their piece, by the way,” Abramson insisted, sitting on the patio of his tidy home on a suburban street in southern New Hampshire, where he lives with his wife, a bunch of bird plushies, and a Lego collection. This was in the spring of 2017. The Trump administration was still fresh, and Abramson’s follower count numbered in the lowish six figures. I happened to be on vacation nearby, and I’d arranged a meeting thinking he might make an interesting subject for a profile. We wound up talking for four hours.“I mean you can see from this conversation,” he went on, “that they probably would have just said, ‘Fuck this, I want don’t want to write about it because it’s too stupid and complicated.’”It occurred to me that he might have a point. Nothing about Abramson is stupid, but he is complicated. He’s a Twitter celebrity, granted, and a Harvard-trained lawyer, but he’s also a scholar with a penchant for esoteric ideas and philosophical musings. And yes, he’s a poet (and poets, as he helpfully pointed out, are accustomed to being misunderstood).With a chorus of birds in the background — bluejays, cardinals, robins, goldfinches, and “obviously a lot of sparrows,” he said — we talked less about Trump than about other aspects of his career, about his work as a criminal defense attorney and subsequent shift to academia; his battles with the literary establishment over the proper evaluation of MFA programs; his failed attempt to publish Shia LaBeouf’s tweets in the Best American Experimental Writing anthology, which he edits; his brazen incitement of the Star Wars fandom; his targeting by neo-Nazi hacker Andrew “weev” Auernheimer; and most of all, his embrace of a new philosophical paradigm known as metamodernism.Abramson, who grew up in Acton, Massachusetts, was a shy kid, a “nonclinical agoraphobic,” as he puts it. Aside from going to school, he told me, “I stayed in my room with the doors locked almost every day for years. That was my life.”When he finally resolved to make a change, it was a big one. At 19, he began working as a criminal investigator for a legal clinic in Washington, D.C., a move he thinks of as “a sort of violent overreaction to having done a certain amount of damage to myself as a young person by shutting myself off from the world. I went from sitting in my room to working the streets of Anacostia searching for witnesses and doing witness interviews.”After graduating from Dartmouth, he entered Harvard Law with the goal of becoming a defense attorney. Abramson began working cases while still in school under Rule 33, which allows law students to represent indigent defendants. Court authorities gave him just 60 seconds to make his case to clients that they should let a student-attorney represent them, crouching to offer his services through a narrow “Judas slit” in the prison door.“You feel like a fraud,” he said. “You worry that you’re going to let them down. And you see a lot of suffering.”He turned to writing as a sort of therapeutic intervention, knocking out 400 poems in one year. After spending seven years as a public defender, he burned out and decided to go back to school. “I just couldn’t do it anymore,” he said. “You’re seeing the car crash of our socioeconomics in the U.S. every single day. Emotionally I was breaking down. It was natural to reach for creative writing as a lifeline because it had always been that for me.”Abramson wound up getting an MFA at the Iowa Writers Workshop, followed by a doctorate in literary studies at the University of Wisconsin. Meanwhile, he became convinced that MFA programs were too insular. Many of the top programs offered little or no funding, which meant that only well-off students could afford to pursue the discipline. Abramson decided to create a new ranking system that took the views of applicants into account. Naturally, their responses favored programs that didn’t demand they go into crippling debt, and the results instantly upended the traditional hierarchy.Abramson says his goal was to force schools to offer MFA candidates more financial aid or risk their exalted status; meanwhile, he also pissed off a lot of people at elite programs. “They called me a charlatan,” he said of the backlash.Abramson describes his MFA ranking battle as his first attempt of many to redefine the role of poetry in American life.In May 2014, just two days after Elliot Rodger killed six people near the University of California at Santa Barbara, Abramson “remixed” Rodger’s final screed into an experimental poem and published it on the Huffington Post. The idea, he wrote, was to “to rescue language from a perversion of language,” to address the killer directly using his own words.The poem doesn’t really work, as even Abramson admits now. And he’d “crossed an uncrossable line,” he said. His detractors in academia denounced him, and a mass-condemnation on Twitter followed. “It causes me a lot of pain to think about,” he told me. “I was wrecked for six or eight months.”By December of that year, Abramson had soured on Twitter and deleted his feed, at least for awhile.If modernism, which flourished in the early 20th century, was animated by a belief in reason, science, and universal truths, postmodernists offered a powerful counterargument: Everything was relative. The grand master narratives were simply myths. Truth was in the eye of the beholder.Postmodernism turned out to be as depressing as it was persuasive, bringing on an epidemic of irony, self-consciousness, and passivity for which metamodernism proposes a cure. While it acknowledges that there is no objective truth, it nonetheless chooses to highlight the power of the stories, or “metanarratives,” that we tell about the world. And rather than getting hung up on longstanding dualities — cynicism versus optimism, reality versus fantasy, irony versus sincerity — it dances between the poles instead.It’s a heady concept, but those who stumble on it often begin to see examples of metamodernism throughout the culture. It certainly helps explain how Abramson managed to identify the tectonic significance of Donald Trump’s presidential bid when nearly everyone else in the media was laughing it off.The day after Trump announced his campaign in the summer of 2015, when the developer and TV star was just one of a dozen aspirants for the Republican nomination, Abramson posted an essay in which he argued that Trump’s was “a serious candidacy that will have serious repercussions for both Democrats and Republicans alike.” Rather than viewing the campaign as either a cynical branding ploy or a sincere attempt to lead the country, Abramson insisted it was both.“Trump is smart enough to know when he — or his speeches; or his haircut; or his political ambitions — are being mocked,” he wrote, “but in the Metamodern Age we can develop metanarratives that animate us even as we fully recognize that they’re farcical to everyone else.”As the campaign heated up, Abramson found himself doing the much same thing — developing metanarratives that, despite having a factual basis, were often seen as patently absurd. A supporter of Bernie Sanders, he wrote a series of pieces on HuffPo arguing that the Vermont senator had a real shot — essays that would later become Exhibit A in the media’s effort to paint Abramson as a peddler of false hopes for delusional liberals.The pushback, while missing the point, was predictable. Abramson’s headlines, like “Bernie Sanders Is Currently Winning the Democratic Primary Race, and I’ll Prove It to You” and “Bernie Sanders Could Still Win the Democratic Nomination — No, Seriously” were, he admits, a form of clickbait. And of course, Sanders eventually lost to Clinton, as the mainstream press had tirelessly predicted.But the pieces are more subtle than critics acknowledged. The first made an interesting and original observation: If you ignored early balloting (which often took place before Sanders was well-known to voters) and looked only at election day votes in states that Sanders contested, he often tied or beat Clinton. The second piece explores an unlikely but plausible scenario where Sanders’ habit of doubling Clinton’s lead in head-to-head matchups against Trump might just spook her superdelegates into a mass defection.Gaming out such unlikely scenarios was risky, and Abramson was roundly mocked for it. But that doesn’t make play-it-safe punditry a more valuable service to readers.Abramson’s metanarratives, by contrast, served to remind us that that there are no foregone conclusions in politics — a view that, had it been adopted by the mainstream press, might have insulated them from their own eventual mass delusion: that our 45th president would wear a pantsuit.What journalists don’t always seem to grasp is that we are also writing metanarratives — assembling the available facts to tell stories. Where Abramson views metamodernism as an antidote to postmodernism’s despair, the metanarratives proffered by the mainstream media tend to be cynical, in the familiar postmodern style. Despite a widespread desire to “make a difference,” we’re a jaded group by nature, hovering over the news cycle like streetwise Law & Order detectives called to yet another homicide. “Looks like we got another one,” we say, with a world-weary shake of the head.But the Trump campaign’s interactions with foreign powers, and Russia’s active measures, and everything that’s happened since do not actually constitute just another run-of-the-mill political scandal. Not even close. And while individual reporters have done impressive work illuminating various aspects of the story (and Abramson dutifully thanks them, and their employers, in his book’s acknowledgements), as a whole, the media hasn’t quite risen to the occasion. Day after day, they reach for an obsolete playbook: chasing scooplets then failing to contextualize them; amplifying the administration’s most farcical assertions and then sanctimoniously fact-checking them; examining the optics of each fresh outrage without illuminating the damage; and regularly failing to process the ramifications of their own reporting. (Note, for example, the recent uproar over Axios’ would-be scoop involving the supposed elimination of birthright citizenship.)One of the appeals of Abramson’s Trump threads is that the one-time criminal defense attorney has somehow retained the ability to recognize the apparent criminality behind Trump’s endless spectacles — the appointment of Matt Whitaker as acting attorney general being one recent example — when most of us have long since gone numb.All available evidence indicates that the chief executive of the world’s only current superpower has a history of criminal behavior going back decades, that his election owes in part to criminal acts and is therefore fundamentally illegitimate, that he may be compromised by a hostile power, and that he is now bargaining away the nation’s foreign policy and attacking its most deeply held values to save his own skin or fatten his wallet or both.Sounds like a hell of a story. It also sounds… kind of overwhelming.Weaponized eye-rolling is an understandable response to Trump’s manufactured chaos. It’s easier to moralize about the dangerous allure of conspiracy theories than to seriously consider the implications of what we already know. Then again, in much the way the entire media except two reporters ignored the implications of the Watergate break-in for a solid year, there was also a time, not long ago, when the Trump-Russia scandal might well have been buried amid the president’s endless barrage of distractions were it not for a bunch of annoying people — credentialed journalists as well as civilians — who wouldn’t stop harping on it.Under the circumstances, Abramson has performed a valuable service. While the rest of the media is feverishly chasing and then dissecting the latest unconscionable but somehow weightless revelation, he’s taken on the more complicated task of actually looking at what’s come to light, putting the pieces together and seeing what the fuck they add up to.Which isn’t to say he hasn’t made himself a pretty tempting target while doing so. Abramson is a weird dude. He’s really into Lego. He’s socially awkward and a little compulsive, and he may have a slight martyr complex. He takes himself extremely seriously. On occasion, he might overshoot the mark a bit. His book proposal sounds insane (although it did land him a book deal). He shamelessly solicits retweets and yet he has more followers than most of us put together.He’s also probably right. And until Mueller files his report — if he files his report — Abramson’s metanarrative may be the best we have.Cody Wilson used one word to summarize the culminating event in his years-long lawsuit against the U.S. government: “Epochal.”This was in July, when news became public about the Department of Justice reaching a legal settlement with Defense Distributed, the Texas nonprofit Wilson founded in 2012 to help distribute 3D-printed firearms. And the response was what I expected from Wilson, a 30-year-old provocateur prone to self-mythologizing. I met him in 2014, when he was 26, after he had successfully designed, manufactured, and test-fired the Liberator, the world’s first fully 3D-printed gun. That breakthrough, and his subsequent effort to disseminate the blueprint to anyone with an internet connection, unleashed all manner of hell.Wilson has long been a showman, equal parts ideologue and 1960s ad man, prone to philosophical meandering and asseverations about state tyranny and possessing a penchant for deliberately poking the political class. His sincerity was often questioned, but even four years removed, I knew what a victory over the federal government meant to him. It meant that Cody Wilson had come tantalizingly close to his dream of dismembering U.S. gun control.“I don’t have to argue philosophically now,” he said during a short phone call at the end of August. “I only have to argue the law.”Two weeks later, the law caught up to Wilson, albeit in a far different way. He was arrested in Taiwan and extradited to the United States for allegedly sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. He met her on SugarDaddyMeet.com, used his real name, called himself a “big deal,” picked her up in an SUV registered to Defense Distributed, took her to a hotel, had sex with her, and paid her five $100 bills, according to an affidavit by Shaun Donovan, a detective with the Austin Police Department. On September 21, the day of his arrest, Wilson resigned from the company.The scandal inspired a measure of glee in Wilson’s opponents. “But the NRA told us Cody Wilson was a good guy with a gun…,” Shannon Watts, founder of gun-control advocacy group Moms Demand, wrote on Twitter.The following Tuesday, however, Paloma Heindorff, vice president of operations at Defense Distributed, introduced herself as the nonprofit’s new director. Heindorff, a three-year veteran of the company, struck a defiant attitude during a press conference, describing her employees as “resilient” and parrying all queries about Wilson’s new legal predicament. Reporters present asked the obvious question: How does Defense Distributed continue on without Cody Wilson? Heindorff had an answer at the ready. “We believe in something, and that something isn’t one man,” she said. “That something is an idea, and we are fully committed to that idea.”For a moment, it may have seemed that the idea of 3D-printed guns might follow Cody Wilson down. But the idea Heindorff invokes — the idea that gun control as we know it can be destroyed by giving every American the capacity to build their own guns — may simply be too powerful to stop.Before 2013, Cody Wilson had used 3D printing to successfully manufacture rifle magazines and the AR-15 lower receiver (the piece, regulated by the federal government, that is required to actually operate the rifle). But it wasn’t until he released the Liberator that he became notorious. After Wilson uploaded the digital blueprints to Defcad.com, a clearinghouse Defense Distributed set up to share its various computer-aided design files for gun components, plans for the Liberator were downloaded 100,000 times. Two days later, Wilson dropped out of law school at the University of Texas. A couple days after that, the State Department ordered him to take his files offline, citing arms export control law. Because people in other countries could download those files, the government argued, Defense Distributed was illegally trafficking guns. Wilson complied and shut down Defcad.The Defcad files had been offline for a year and a half when I visited Defense Distributed’s Austin-based factory in 2014. That December, Wilson was preparing an entirely different project: the Ghost Gunner, a desktop milling machine that enables even know-nothing machinists to mill a four-fifths-finished aluminum lower receiver to completion. Because purchasing what’s called an “80 percent lower” doesn’t require a background check, users of the Ghost Gunner could complete the component and then purchase the remaining parts of an AR-15 rifle — also without a background check — to build an untraceable firearm. Wilson said he sold out a preorder of 500 machines, grossing $700,000, and teased his forthcoming legal battle. “There will be a Defense Distributed v. United States that those bastards at UT law will have to read one day,” he told me then.True to his word, in May 2015, Defense Distributed used the money from Ghost Gunner sales to sue the State Department, essentially arguing that the federal government ordering files off the internet is akin to a prior restraint of speech. In doing so, it coupled the First and Second Amendments by contending that digital files are a form of expression. The move found unlikely supporters. Even the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press submitted an amicus brief in Defense Distributed’s favor. “To come after the Second Amendment now, you increasingly have to come after people’s ability to publish and communicate,” Wilson speculated four years ago.When the State Department ordered the company to shut down Defcad in 2013, its argument concerned only the alleged violation of federal arms export control law, not the act itself of publishing digital gun files. After all, technical data about guns, including their manufacture, is readily available elsewhere online and in library books about gunsmithing.When the government settled this year, the State Department denied that it violated Defense Distributed’s First and Second Amendment rights — and yet the settlement itself indirectly conceded the point. It gave Defense Distributed a license to publish all the files it had previously ordered the company to take offline, effectively agreeing with Defense Distributed’s take on the fundamental question underlying the entire legal conflict: that computer code, even code that can lead to the production of a functional firearm, is protected speech.It was a bold gambit, but a winning one. On July 27, 2018, 10 files — including the full technical plans of the AR-15 and the 3D-printable design file of the Liberator — reappeared on Defcad.com. No longer was Wilson a mere tech-savvy Dennis the Menace. He was now a fully sanctioned arms dealer with the law on his side.The fact that Defense Distributed could continue distributing files is far less important than the broader implications of the fight. By savvy and subversive use of technology, Wilson had not only muddled what it means to sell, obtain, and own a gun; he had also called into question what a gun actually is, thereby transforming a legal question into a far more complicated technological problem practically inextricable from the concept of free expression. “I believe what I’m doing immeasurably enables the Second Amendment,” said Wilson during an interview with CBS on August 2. “It immeasurably expands it in a technical era.”Like Napster before it, Defense Distributed pushed America toward a new order where ownership is disordered, accountability is next to nil, and technology is always a few steps ahead of the law. This — anarchy, essentially — was always the plan. “What separated Defense Distributed from the impotent,” Wilson wrote in Come and Take It, the memoir he published in 2016, “was that when we said ‘universal access to arms,’ those who listened understood we meant just that… We not only meant it; we intended to take the fanatical steps to enact it.”Alarmed by the settlement with the federal government, state attorneys general moved in on July 30, four days after Defense Distributed’s files went back online. Eight of them sued the State Department, arguing that the settlement itself was unlawful. The next day, Judge Robert Lasnik of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington granted a temporary restraining order. Defense Distributed had to take down the files it had just reposted. On August 27, by which point attorneys general from 11 other states had joined in, Lasnik extended the order by granting a preliminary injunction, effectively blocking Defense Distributed, for the time being, from publishing its files online.“Regulation under the [Arms Export Control Act] means that the files cannot be uploaded to the internet,” Lasnik wrote in his court order, adding, “but they can be emailed, mailed, securely transmitted, or otherwise published within the United States.”True to form, the very next day, Wilson announced the company would sell the files via thumb drive to verified U.S. persons with verified U.S. addresses, likening Defense Distributed to the iTunes of digital gun sales. On the first day, Defense Distributed made $20,000 selling branded USB sticks that contained the 10 gun files it had just been forced to remove from the internet. The move smacked of the same counter-maneuvering that has marked the company’s efforts from the beginning.It is ongoing. “We’re still shipping and have no intention of stopping,” Heindorff said at the September press conference. “We believe that people have the right to have these files.”But the vision was always bigger than computer files, bigger than just getting a single-shot, 3D-printed pistol to fire. No mass shooting, no resurgent gun-control movement, no form of U.S. government could ever stand in the way of Defense Distributed’s first order of business: universal access to arms. Given many Americans’ strong attachment to the power of firearm ownership, this is an idea whose resonance will only deepen.The idea of universal access finds its perfect vessel in Paloma Heindorff, Wilson’s successor at Defense Distributed. Born and raised by artistic parents in central London, she grew up in a “socialist-leaning” family who was “definitely anti-firearm,” as she said during an episode of Tom Gresham’s syndicated radio show, Gun Talk, that aired in October 2017. It was only after she moved to New York City that Heindorff began her journey into pro-gun activism.“I was dismayed by the narrative in the world today, the idea we can be looked after by our government,” she told Gresham. “Not only is it ridiculous fundamentally, it also erodes the power that one can feel as an individual.”A libertarian friend of Heindorff’s originally turned her on to Defense Distributed. After spending a weekend watching slick YouTube clips of the nonprofit’s work, she emailed Wilson, received a reply, and in five weeks had moved everything she owned to Austin and took up a position at the company. In the span of two years, she went from having never fired a weapon to pulling the trigger on a .50-caliber M2 Browning machine gun.Heindorff didn’t respond to several email requests for comment, but it’s evident to anyone who has followed her that the idea of immeasurably enabling gun rights is as potent in Heindorff as it was in Wilson. “It’s obvious to everyone here that he’s been an incredibly powerful figurehead,” she said at the September press conference. “But this is about an idea.” Wilson may have the verve of a showman, but Heindorff has the zeal of a convert.Still, Heindorff must contend with one last obstacle: the preliminary injunction granted in August, a crucial, last-ditch effort for the states involved.“It’s been a happy coincidence for the states that the export laws have also protected the states themselves and their residents from these 3D-printed gun blueprints,” says Mary B. McCord, a visiting professor at Georgetown University Law School and former attorney with the Department of Justice. (In an article published over the summer, McCord called the First Amendment argument Wilson used in Defense Distributed’s legal fight mere “window dressing for his real goal: to put guns into the hands of every person who wants one.”)Since the preliminary injunction that took Defense Distributed’s files offline yet again, the company has raised about $400,000 to continue a legal fight it thought was over as of July. Defense Distributed filed its motion to dismiss in late October. If the case in Washington is thrown out, that protection the states have enjoyed goes away. (In the time since the motion was filed, a gunman killed 12 people at a bar in Los Angeles. Less than 24 hours later, a New Jersey law that outlaws 3D-printed guns and “ghost guns” went into effect. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said the law was passed “to stop the next Cody Wilson.”)Yet this fresh legal imbroglio has done little to halt Defense Distributed’s ultimate goal of expanding Americans’ access to guns. In a rebuttal to the state attorneys general, an unassociated website, CodeIsFreeSpeech.com, began hosting all the company’s files. (“Defense Distributed’s not posting its files, but you can find them in five seconds on Google,” says Josh Blackman, the group’s attorney.) Or you can simply buy a branded USB drive, a tiny source of terror that can’t be controlled: the samizdat of lethal weaponry, coursing through the underground, forever.Regardless of Cody Wilson’s fate, we’ve turned a corner. There’s likely no going back. His bitterest opponents, as much as anyone, know that fact all too well.“Cody Wilson was the face of Defense Distributed and 3D-printed guns, but we doubt that his movement will die with his resignation,” the co-presidents of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence said in a statement after Wilson resigned. “The Pandora’s box has been opened, and it will not go away with Wilson.”Last month, Apple added 158 new emojis to iOS, but the emoji keyboard on iPhone — the primary means of accessing each of these characters — remains almost identical to the one we used nearly a decade ago.Meanwhile, people push for competing interests. Some want more emojis to better represent the diverse world we live in while others are frustrated by the ever-increasing list of characters to scroll past when new emojis push old favorites to the side.“Just make it stop!” my friend Elle remarked after the most recent update, clearly falling in the latter camp of emoji traditionalists.The two problems have something in common: An ever-increasing library of emojis has started to push our gadgets to the limit. Too many new emojis make it harder to find what you actually want to use on the keyboard, and the keyboard itself can’t accommodate diverse options.All these issues need to be considered by the Unicode Consortium, the group responsible for approving new emoji characters each year. Unicode acts as the liaison between users and vendors when it comes to managing which new emojis come out when. (Full disclosure: My site, Emojipedia, is a voting Unicode member, and I participate with the emoji subcommittee.)With a potential onslaught of new emojis on the way in coming years, is the emoji keyboard up to the challenge?There are three main groups involved in approving, releasing, and using emojis. First, there’s Unicode, which approves and encodes emojis that will be supported by all major vendors — Apple, Google, and Samsung, for example. There’s no point in Unicode approving new emojis if vendors aren’t going to support them on their platforms.Meanwhile, those vendors want emojis that address the needs of their customers while remaining in line with their corporate values. They have a clear incentive to address user demand while also juggling how new additions fit on the keyboard and within the memory constraints of a mobile operating system.Finally, people who use emojis on products like iOS or WhatsApp want, well, a mix of everything. Some want more emojis to represent things like bagels; some don’t want a single new emoji unless the keyboard improves.Proposals for new emojis, both from companies and the general public, are assessed by the Unicode Consortium to see if they’ll be included in the Unicode Standard. But Unicode doesn’t handle the art direction for emojis; companies are responsible for how any emoji looks on their platform — which is why a smiley face looks different on an iPhone than a Galaxy — and that can make things complicated. Innovation can only go so far: Should any company stray too far from the rest of the pack, they risk drawing ire from their users. Plus, one company changing an emoji’s appearance won’t determine how it is seen by recipients with phones from different vendors.For example, one of the biggest issues with Apple unilaterally changing its gun emoji to look like a toy in 2016 wasn’t so much the change itself but the fact that Apple was the only company doing it. The result was cross-platform confusion where a toy water pistol could be sent from an iPhone and arrive as a lethal weapon on a Samsung Galaxy. (All major vendors eventually changed their gun emojis to toys in 2018.)Consider the wine glass emoji: It depicts red wine, not white, which could reasonably arouse the suspicions of a picky sommelier. If Unicode were to approve a new “white wine” character, it would raise other questions: What about rosé? What about stout or pale ale instead of a general beer? This might seem like nitpicking, but when you have a text-encoding standard that is deployed across billions of devices around the world, being thorough isn’t optional.To take a real example from the latest emoji update: Redheads, it seems, aren’t all that happy that they have been relegated to a single woman or man with red hair (plus skin tones) on the emoji keyboard. The bride emoji wasn’t given a red hair option, though she can have blond or brown hair. That problem extends to all the new hair-based emojis introduced this year. Though there are individual emojis depicting a person with curly hair, white hair, and no hair, you can’t mix and match them with other existing emojis, making it so that there are no options for a curly-haired runner, a red-haired surfer, or a bald police officer.Things become substantially more complicated when you add skin tones to the mix.The superhero emoji currently has 12 variants for gender and skin tone (six women, six men). Adding each hair type to those options of tones would take that 12 and make it 60 possible variants. Suddenly, choosing an emoji is like creating a character in The Sims — hardly feasible on a standard emoji keyboard.While accommodating all the different hairstyles would be a challenge, you could imagine how it would be possible — if Unicode and vendors decided to prioritize it. The emoji keyboard could probably handle four rows of hair types for each emoji if that was deemed a priority. But what if you wanted to mix all of this into the emojis that show more than one person — say, to create a diverse family? Well, it’s all about the numbers.As of 2018, most vendors don’t permit any emoji with multiple people in it to change skin tones. You can’t create a mixed-race family, and there would be two main design challenges if you could:Microsoft has some technology on Windows that makes emoji combinations more practical to implement than the pre-rendered designs used by Apple and Samsung. As such, Windows already allows thousands of family combinations in emoji format. But there’s a catch: There’s no interface to add them on the Windows emoji keyboard — which is lucky, actually, because no one wants to scroll past 52,000 family emojis to get to the lion or baseball.Those who don’t identify with the two current gender options that make up the bulk of the emoji choices have access to three gender-inclusive emojis for a child, adult, and older adult. These were approved in 2017 and effectively serve as a third unspecified gender for nonbinary folk (or anyone who happens to feel these emoji more closely resemble their personal style). These can’t currently be added to a family grouping on any platform nor are they given options for any of the new hairstyles. You can send an emoji of a mechanic, pilot, artist, or student who is a woman or a man but there’s not a gender-neutral emoji option for any of them.Diversity and representation are incredibly important, but there are real-world constraints that make unlimited diversity practically impossible given how emojis work today. The “press and hold” keyboard couldn’t support so many options, and even if it could, things would get extremely messy if some vendors adopted the diverse options and others didn’t.But there is good news on the horizon for diversity. An option to allow 55 new emojis for people holding hands is drafted for the 2019 emoji release. Being that there are only two people in this emoji, there are thousands fewer combinations than multi-person families would require.This might be the nudge vendors need to add new functionality to the trusty emoji keyboard, which could help down the line.The emoji keyboard is the most visible aspect of the emoji character set because it’s where we can see them all in one place. Apple’s emoji keyboard back in 2008 had just 471 emojis on it, yet it looked almost identical to the iOS keyboard today — which supports 2,776 emojis.Each new addition to the emoji keyboard is carefully inserted in the place it is deemed most logical, but users sometimes can’t find them. It’s easy enough to find the bagel among the food items, but what about the lab coat, ball of yarn, or abacus?And why do we need any of these new objects, anyway? It’s one thing to note that representation is important when it comes to people, but when it comes to objects, perhaps we’d manage fine without the new compass emoji added in 2018.Unicode has a wide variety of selection factors that go into determining which emoji proposals to approve. These mostly do a good job of filtering out emojis that aren’t likely to be popular or that really can’t be identified at tiny text sizes. The trouble is, an emoji that is superfluous to me might be considered essential to you. Just because I don’t have much use for a petri dish emoji doesn’t mean that no one does. For this reason, Unicode considers many new emojis every year, and it implements many of them.One feature would really help users sort through them all: search. Google has offered a search option on their Gboard emoji keyboard (that comes installed on stock Android devices) for years, and Apple has emoji search on the Mac.When it comes to the two most popular phone vendors on the planet — Apple and Samsung — there’s another alternative to scrolling for that perfect emoji, and that is autosuggest. When autosuggest works, it’s great. There’s no need to even open the emoji keyboard. I type “cocktail” and up comes a choice of two cocktail glasses. I type “monocle” and there is the monocle-wearing guy smiling smugly back at me. To get the finger pointing to the left, I type — well, I’m not sure, actually. “Pointing” gives me the single digit raised up; “finger” gives me no choices, and “left” suggests the word “leftovers” in the third segment of the screen where emojis generally appear.So go on, Apple, let us search.Another fix would be to let users hide emojis from the keyboard. Unicode doesn’t remove emojis from the Unicode Standard, but there’s nothing saying that every emoji must be shown on every emoji keyboard.It’s clear that when it comes to emojis for diverse families, couples, or other groupings, the “press-and-hold” function isn’t going to scale for hundreds or thousands of combinations. If diverse families are added to the mix in future years, the emoji keyboard will have to undergo substantial changes.Increased representation on our personal devices is important, and companies have recognized this by offering alternatives to the Unicode emoji set in recent years. Apple has Memoji, Samsung has AR Emoji, and Google has Minis, which all allow far more customization of individual people than Unicode could ever offer. These can’t be sent inline with text (one of the true reasons standard emojis are so popular), but they do fill a role that Unicode may never be able to.As Google’s head of emoji Jennifer Daniel puts it, “Sometimes you just really need a pink-haired monocle speckled giant hair bow wearing zombie with a goatee.” That level of detail is not likely in Unicode’s emoji future, but who knows what else might be?Every damn day, a window pops up in the upper right corner of my MacBook.Inevitably, I’ll click “try tonight” and, since my computer is rarely plugged in, I’ll get another notification — a reminder that updates can only occur when the computer is hooked up to a power supply.Despite feeling like I just updated my computer a few months ago, I’m still plagued with update notifications that pop up when I’m busy with other tasks (or just scrolling through Twitter). It’s relentless: Just when I thought I was free from my notification prison, I’d be reminded to update before I click — again! — “remind me tomorrow.”I’m not the only one enraged by my computer’s endless nagging. Tens of thousands of searches about disabling updates occur on Google every month, according to the platform’s keyword planning tool for advertisers. A 2017 Pew Research survey found that 14 percent of people never update their phone’s operating system, and 42 percent only do so when it’s convenient, despite these updates sometimes containing urgent security fixes.Research shows that notifications can destroy focus and even cause stress and anxiety. While researchers have yet to turn their clinical attention to software updates specifically, it’s likely that the unwanted diversion I get from annoying email push notifications, robocalls, or overactive group chats causes the same neurological response as my computer’s daily reminder that I’m not taking good enough care of it.Sara Thomée, an assistant psychology professor at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden, described it in evolutionary terms. Our brains, she told me, are evolved to react to stimuli to protect us against danger; a corresponding rise in stress hormones, like cortisol, will better enable us to react to that danger. In a sense, she said, technological notifications act in a similar way.“In a workday, where perhaps not many tigers are around, frequent notifications will probably raise our levels of stress and break our focus,” she said.One 2016 study looked at the neurological effect of smartphone notifications on subjects involved in a task, and found that notifications had a notable impact on the concentration and task performance of those prone to smartphone overuse. Research from the Future Work Centre, based in the United Kingdom, found that people who utilize email push notifications on their phones and computers also reported feeling stress and pressure around email.Part of that stress comes from splitting your attention between different things. Not only does switching your focus from one task (say, me writing this story) to another (a text message from my sister) require psychological energy; the inevitable switch back requires yet more energy, and that, Thomée said, delays productivity.Even worse, wrote neuroscientist Daniel Levitin in The Guardian, the necessary decision-making that arises when a notification interrupts another task causes further stress and energy depletion. Regardless of whether or not I elect to follow my computer’s prompt, the energy required to make that decision, and countless other similar, notification-prompted choices, accumulates over the course of the day.“It turns out that decision-making is also very hard on your neural resources,” Levitin wrote. “Little decisions appear to take up as much energy as big ones.”Thomée thinks guilt may play a part in this stressful energy depletion, noting that if we decide to go along with our technology’s demands, it could bring up anxiety about what that update will actually do to our devices. This fear isn’t entirely unwarranted: Apple is infamous for throttling older devices through iOS updates, and was hit last month with a $5.7 million fine from an Italian antitrust organization for slowing down phones with new software updates, as well as two class action lawsuits. Sony once released — and ultimately pulled — a PlayStation 3 update that completely broke some consoles.One study from May looked at why users don’t update their software by surveying existing literature and polling hundreds of people via Amazon Mechanical Turk and Google Consumer Surveys. It found that 7.5 percent of participants cited “update risk,” including “data loss due to the update, and whether the update may be malicious,” as a significant concern, compared to 40.5 percent for update “costs” like time and storage space. Twenty-nine percent cited “necessity” — whether the user feels the update is important or needed.Ultimately, as annoying and potentially risky as software update notifications are, it’s considerably more dangerous to leave your software out of date. Developers push updates in response to discovering vulnerabilities, so if you don’t update, you’re potentially putting your computer or phone at risk of being hacked.Yet, it’s undeniable that the current system doesn’t quite work, at least where apps are concerned. Research shows that push notifications trigger a majority of app uninstalls, which could be bad for business. And further studies found that even people who identify as software developers or IT professionals often neglect to update their software, and that timing certainly plays a role: If an update notification comes while you’re watching a video or doing work, you’re liable to ignore it.“Say you’re in the middle of talking to the board and your boss with this beautiful presentation you prepared for six months and then in the middle it says, ‘Please update your software.’ I mean, how stupid is that?” Nir Eyal, an author who specializes in the intersection of psychology and tech, said. Given the amount of data these companies have on us, Nir said, “they should be able to know when you’re in a meeting, when you’re using a piece of software and you don’t want to be interrupted.”“Silent updates,” where software automatically downloads and installs new data in the background to avoid interrupting users, can help. But that’s not always possible. For example, game or iOS updates can be many gigabytes large — too much to download over a cellular network, unless you’re into data overages — and require quite a bit of time to install.You can often opt into automatic updates via your device’s app store, and given how impactful those notifications can be, it’s probably wise to do so. There will always be some we must handle manually, however. Maybe we should also resign ourselves to the Sisyphean task of software updates as a price of admission in the modern world.Tim Wu has the kind of résumé that would make the most ambitious helicopter parent smile. A graduate of McGill and Harvard Law, Wu trained under some of the legal world’s biggest names, including Stephen Breyer, whom he clerked for on the Supreme Court. Wu was a professor by the time he was 30; today, he’s settled at Columbia Law, where he co-directs the Program on Law and Technology. Oh, and he worked for the Federal Trade Commission and later the National Economic Council, both under Obama. You might know him for coining the term “net neutrality” or for his 2010 book, The Master Switch, or maybe you voted for him for lieutenant governor of New York in 2014, when he took 40 percent of the Democratic primary.And yet, for all his time spent in the halls of power, Wu wants nothing more than to change the way America works. Wu’s slender but powerful new book, The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age, is a full-throated call for the government to use its authority to break up our biggest corporations, particularly tech titans like Facebook and Google.The day after the midterms, I reached Wu on the phone at his office in New York. We talked about the future prospects of antitrust politics, his thoughts on socialism and the state of the Democratic Party, and whether he’s auditioning for the role of America’s next great trust buster. Wu says The Curse of Bigness isn’t a job application, but he’s suspiciously well-qualified.Tim Wu: We’re dealing with a lot of questions that go back to the issue of concentration. If you look at decades of wage stagnation, huge inequality, that goes back to concentration. And our political system is controlled by those same monopolies too; you run into them whenever you try to make changes. It’s like if you want to change anything, first you have to handle the monopolies.We’ve had periods in this country where antitrust fervor was very strong. Both Democrats and Republicans had strong antitrust planks in their party platforms. There was even a whole antitrust party at one point. But it moved out of public view, into long court proceedings and back rooms. Antitrust got technocrafied and lost touch with the public. And that passion has been redirected elsewhere. With Trump, you have him channeling that energy at immigrants, for example, saying that’s who people should be upset with for the state of things, when it should be this corporate concentration. And over the past 40 years, antitrust has fallen out of the Democrats’ agenda too.Yes.I think so, yeah. People are hungry for big ideas — American ideas — that explain what’s going on, and antitrust does that. I’m not a socialist; I don’t think government should just own industries. That didn’t work too well in the 20th century. I do believe that we should, you know, have public options available in certain markets, but we need to learn from history on that one.I don’t think the two have to be opposed. Let’s say you’re a nurse in a small city, and all the hospitals are owned by the same company, and your wages haven’t gone up in years. You’ve got two ways of addressing that. The hospitals aren’t competing against each other for workers, because they’re concentrated, so you break up that hospital chain and you have a more competitive environment for labor and your wages go up. Maybe you also want to organize a union to handle it from that angle. But they don’t need to be opposed.Well, they convinced us — and maybe themselves — that they had a different business model, that they were giving things away for free, that antitrust didn’t apply in the same ways. I include myself in this, because I was at the Federal Trade Commission at the time, and we didn’t know how to deal with these companies. But then you start seeing the same sort of standard anticompetitive corporate behavior. You have these mergers, you have Facebook eating up Instagram, eating up WhatsApp, and then, let’s say, humbling Snap. They’re back to the regular corporate model.We should distinguish it from something like Wikipedia, which is different, and they took the steps and made the decision to set it up as a nonprofit. And that affects how it works. With these other companies, I think what happened is these guys decided they had to be billionaires.That’s true. Look, these are not the evilest companies on earth. Okay, Facebook has had some moments. But Google isn’t using child slaves to mine diamonds. I’d rather we have companies that aspire to do good, or at least not to be evil, than not have that. I think what happened is people started to think they could do more good by working in tech than by joining the government, and tech starts recruiting the kind of people who work in government. But nobody gets a pass.Ha, you mean is the book a job application? No, no, it’s not. But yes, I do think the iconic trust-buster/octopus hunter should make a comeback. That character helps connect the public to antitrust work. Trump is complicated, because he connects with the public in that way, fighting against companies as sort of rivals, but it’s not reflected in the policy.On the record, I’ll just say that I’m happy to work with anyone who wants to focus on antitrust. I’m especially happy to work with anyone who wants to appoint federal judges who are interested in antitrust. Economic thinking has fallen out of how Democrats evaluate judges, and it would be good to see that return. We need some neo-Brandeisians on the courts.He won? That’s great! He’s a friend and another Obama administration vet.Very strong. The states are going to have to step up. I ran at the state level. If the federal government doesn’t do it, then the states are going to have to. And there’s precedent for that: Minnesota took on the railroad, and Texas took on Microsoft early. But these cases can cost a lot of money and take a long time. Companies can wait states out.No, I haven’t heard of that one. I guess it’s so much of my work life that when I relax, it’s not what I search for.Huh. I’ll have to do that.Mars, our neighboring red dot, has been the focus of human exploration for hundreds of years. Science fiction writers, scientists, and explorers alike have spent decades imagining what life would be like if humankind could pick up and move there. Never mind the radiation, lack of oxygen, and inhospitable atmosphere. According to some billionaires and scientists, Mars is our future.The private space industry has exploded, with companies like SpaceX, Blue Origin, and Virgin Galactic all designing spacecrafts to bring people to the cosmos and orbit the earth as tourists, or, in SpaceX’s case, to set up a massive settlement of humans on Mars.But the field of space exploration is at an ethical impasse.Let’s set aside for a moment the fact that space travel is difficult and risky, and that people could die on the journey. Critics of privatized space travel also take issue with the implications these companies are built on. What does it mean when a company makes it their goal to colonize an entire planet?The desire to become interplanetary harkens back to the 19th century, when colonizers believed it was their God-given right to expand out to the west and take over land and communities. The adoption of Mars as a second home is the Manifest Destiny of the 21st century. Even the language is problematic. “Colonize Mars” is one of the phrases private companies use most often to describe their grand plans. SpaceX sells a T-shirt that reads “Occupy Mars.”“These issues intersect with so many lessons that we have here on Earth, be it the rights of indigenous people or the way we even think about a wild environment,” says Lucianne Walkowicz, the Baruch S. Blumberg NASA Chair of Astrobiology at the Kluge Center, and astronomer at the Adler Planetarium who studies the ethics of Mars exploration.Throughout history, colonization has resulted in mass deaths, the spread of disease, and the decimation or suppression of native cultures. Yet these issues are rarely discussed among Mars colonization planners. Some think Mars is a dead planet, covered in a fine layer of rusty dirt, rocks, and some frozen water. But despite our constant and steady exploration of Mars over the past 50 years, it’s unknown whether life exists there, or ever did. “We don’t know whether there is a history that we could study there or learn about,” Walkowicz says. “We don’t know whether there is life under the surface. There could be microbial communities. There could be more complicated stuff. We just don’t know.”Space moguls like Elon Musk brush off the issue. During a panel interview at the annual American Geophysical Union meeting in 2015, Musk was asked about planetary protection measures. “I think the reality is that there isn’t any life on the surface of Mars,” he responded. “There may be microbial life deep underground, where it’s shielded from radiation and the cold. That’s a possibility, but in that case, anything we do on the surface is not going to have a big impact on the subterranean life.”Experts don’t necessarily agree with Musk’s view and argue that more research is needed before declaring that there’s nothing worth preserving on the planet.Mars remains an untouched environment. Landing hundreds of people on the surface would be the equivalent of walking into a controlled laboratory and dousing everything with grime and dirt. For space scientists, the experiment would be ruined. Not to mention the fact that humans don’t have a great track record when it comes to environmental preservation. The health of our own planet — one that has clean water, breathable air, and an atmosphere that keeps us alive — is in crisis. We’ve done a terrible job taking care of the Earth. Why would Mars be any different?The fact is that scientific exploration is not the goal for wannabe Mars dwellers, and issues related to space preservation largely fall to NASA. While companies like SpaceX work closely with the agency, their goals are not necessarily aligned. It is the job of NASA’s Office of Planetary Protection to promote responsible exploration of the solar system and protect any indigenous life form, even if it’s ancient and no longer alive. Walkowicz says she worries that the current administration may be too lenient, policy-wise, toward business interests.Musk and others stand by their intentions to transport humans to Mars as a way to save the species in case of a disaster, like an asteroid or the repercussions from a massive world war. If we are wiped out, at least we have some extra human stock on Mars. But this logic is flawed, Walkowicz says, because it is “spreading the idea that global annihilation due to an asteroid could happen at any moment.”“It injects an urgency into human beings going to Mars that doesn’t actually exist,” she adds. “They’re always talking about the asteroid strike or in a billion years the sun is going to expand and make the earth too hot. Nobody ever brings up climate change.”If there is going to be a backup plan for humanity, who gets to be backed up? Mars settlement plans are likely to be offered to a select group of people, like those who can afford a $200,000 ticket on a SpaceX rocket. Although Musk paints a picture of a comfortable space life, anyone who takes that journey should know the risks. They might not get to come back. Mars could become home to a lot of unhappy wealthy people.If we have a chance to do this all again, experts argue, we should be careful and put a lot more thought and consideration into both the ethics and logistics of sending people to Mars. As part of her Kluge fellowship, Walkowicz recently held a conference called Decolonizing Mars that brought together scientists, philosophers, writers, artists, ethicists, and engineers to begin discussions on alternative plans. Walkowicz says she isn’t totally against sending humans to Mars, but she thinks the prospect needs to be approached more inclusively. “There are certainly aspects of learning about Mars — both its present and its history — that are way more efficient if you have humans there locally,” she says. “So I think there are compelling scientific reasons for humans to go.”Mars is by no means a realistic backup plan for our survival. It is, however, a hot spot for scientific exploration. Those who dream of setting up large communities in the cosmos need to work in tandem with those who have different goals and perspectives.“Just because there are some multibillionaires who have ideas about how we should go to space,” Walkowicz says, “doesn’t mean that there aren’t a lot of us with other ideas.”I meet Christy Harrison in a crowded Brooklyn bar on the first night of summer in 2017. She’s an extremely pretty brunette with chic, angled bangs and a great navy-striped dress. There’s also something just a little bit guarded about her. As we talk over pork belly sandwiches, I decide it might be from knowing she appears to fit seamlessly into one mold — stylish, thin, healthy-food-oriented — when, in fact, she’s been working hard for many years now to build a different kind of reputation. “I was a food writer,” Christy says, “who was really struggling with food.”Christy was on staff at Plenty, a hip indie magazine that ran for a few years in the mid-2000s, and later at the iconic Gourmet magazine in the final two years before it folded in 2009. She wrote about organic farming, biodynamic wine, and the evils of processed foods. “Oh, and I definitely helped fan the flames of the gluten-free craze,” Christy tells me. She’s not proud of this. Because in between all those fancy press lunches, chef interviews, and junkets on organic farms, Christy was spiraling. What began as a diet in college turned into a full-blown eating disorder by her early twenties. “My symptoms never fit neatly into one eating-disorder diagnosis,” she explains. “I would move between restricting, bingeing, and over-exercising, over and over, but it was always sort of nebulous.” Christy can only see the patterns of her disorder now, in retrospect. At the time, she thought she was just “obsessed with food,” and really no different from anyone else around her.Christy and I didn’t know each other during those years, but her story is familiar. I know the world she inhabited, because I was at its periphery, as a junior health editor at the now defunct Organic Style magazine, and later, as the kind of freelance writer whom women’s magazines call when they need a piece on which types of produce are the most important to buy organic, or why you should learn to cook quinoa.On one freelance assignment in 2007, I found myself sitting at the bar of the famed farmhouse-chic restaurant Blue Hill at Stone Barns, in Pocantico Hills, New York. It was noon on a Wednesday and the restaurant was closed, but I was eating the most delicious salad of my life, hand-prepared by the celebrity chef Dan Barber with greens picked that morning from his greenhouse and wild mushrooms foraged from the forests around the farm.I was there doing research for a book with a woman who, at the time, was a little bit famous for her philanthropy and her extreme vegan politics. After we ate our salads, the waiter brought out a plate of fresh-baked chocolate chip cookies for dessert. “Are those made with white sugar?” she asked. “I think we’re all done.” I had only eaten six mushrooms and three handfuls of micro-greens. The cookies, the waiter explained, were made with fair trade dark chocolate and butter from a cow named Tallulah. The vegan demurred again, this time citing her sympathy for Tallulah. Her assistant and the restaurant’s publicist followed suit. I took the cookie. Even the waiter seemed surprised.Back then, I focused on eco-food issues because I thought that niche would help me avoid writing the kind of weight-loss stories that women’s magazines are so notorious for running every month. I wrote those, too — when you’re a broke freelance writer, there’s not much you won’t write about — but always with a degree of existential crisis and bargaining: I would write them for women’s magazines, but not for teen magazines. I would write one about the relationship between blood sugar and white sugar because that seemed scientific and important. But eventually, I stopped wanting to write any such stories; I hated trying to find definitive answers about weight loss when the science was constantly shifting. And I hated telling women how to make their bodies smaller when I didn’t really believe they should. And so I embraced the eco-food movement, because — on the surface, at least — it wasn’t about calorie counting or crash diets. It was okay to eat the cookie, I thought, as long as it was made with fair trade chocolate and local butter and eggs. But as I learned that day at Stone Barns, it still wasn’t okay to eat the cookie, no matter how sustainably sourced the ingredient list was.This is because the eco-food movement, also known as the eco-gastronomy or alternative-food movement, was busy embracing the war on obesity, joining the front lines of the fight. And food became something to categorize — whole or processed, real or fake, clean or dirty — and to fear. Pretty soon almost every food and health writer I knew was dropping gluten or white sugar from her diet, then bringing it back, then dropping something else. Now that trend has gone mainstream; even my 88-year-old grandmother knows what gluten is and why half her family isn’t eating it on any given day. And that’s because the early to mid-2000s represented a kind of cultural awakening around food, driven by the success of movies like Super Size Me and books like Fast Food Nation and The Omnivore’s Dilemma. To be a food journalist, especially in New York City, at the glossy magazines that Christy wrote for, meant that you had be up on who made the best artisanal iced coffee and designer cupcakes, but also on the latest research showing why we’re not really meant to digest dairy, or the differing omega-3 quantities of grass-fed and grain-fed beef. It all felt really important, as if we were on the verge of discovering a profound connection between nutrition, health, and the environment that nobody had ever seen quite that way before.Connecting all her food anxieties to a larger movement made Christy feel “like I wasn’t just this vain, selfish person trying to lose weight.” Suddenly, her obsession with food had a larger, nobler purpose. “I thought, ‘I can help change the landscape and make everyone healthier,’” she said. “There was some desire to be communal about it, a kind of social justice drive.” Giving up meat and gluten wasn’t dieting — it was a hard and virtuous life choice that would transform your health and boost your green street cred at the same time. But in the hands of those celebrity chefs, food activists, actresses turned health gurus, and the media who love them, “eating clean” involves trading one set of food rules for another. “Now, I think about how much I was struggling and so were all these other food writers I know,” Christy says. “We kept thinking we were finding answers. But really, we were participating in this mass marketing of disordered eating.”It took several more years before Christy came to that realization and began to think critically about the alternative-food movement and the “clean eating” craze that it helped to fuel. As a food writer, she continued to cycle between the extremes of her disorder. Because a big part of the job is going out to eat exotic, lavish meals, at some point, a food writer who doesn’t eat just starts to look weird. “But I’d compensate by restricting even more when I was on my own,” she notes. And when Gourmet folded in 2009, Christy was still deeply passionate about helping to spread the gospel of whole foods, so she decided to get her master’s in public health and become a dietitian.At first, studying nutrition all day only further entrenched Christy’s eating habits. She wanted to do well in school, and it seemed as if eating perfectly was part of being a model student. But one day in class, everyone was told to partner up and take each other’s body measurements. They got on scales, they wrapped tape measures around their waists, hips, and necks, and they used calipers to measure the fat on the undersides of their arms. Obsessively tracking body size in this way is the kind of thing that people with eating disorders do all the time; so much so that putting away the scale and the tape measure is often an essential first step in any treatment program.Although Christy was far from recovered, she had made enough progress to know how dangerous it was for her to obsess over numbers like these. But refusing to participate didn’t feel like an option. So, she wrote down all her measurements. Then she looked in the textbook to see how her numbers compared to the “ideal” weight for someone of her height and build. She was, as she puts it, “more than a few pounds” over the textbook limit. “At first, I panicked, like, ‘Okay, I’ve got to really double down and eat even better,’” Christy recalls. “Then I realized: the only time I’d been that small was when I was in the most intense restriction period of my eating disorder.” She was done. “That’s when I decided to just throw out that whole model of thinking about food and weight.”When I reported nutrition stories in the early 2000s, conventional dietitians were often rattled by the organic foodie approach, and kept pointing out the surprisingly high calorie count of foods like olive oil, quinoa, and almond butter. But over the past decade, the two camps have slowly merged. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics spokespeople whom I interviewed for Redbook and Runner’s World became more fluent in the language of clean eating. They began talking less about how to choose chicken breasts the size of a deck of cards, and more about the nutrient profiles of various nut butters and how to cook whole grains. Meanwhile, the newer generation of alternative foodies has become much more interested in things like protein and carbohydrate grams, and how many of each you should or shouldn’t eat per day. And one core philosophy has always united both approaches: That we are what we eat. That food is medicine. And that there is no problem — be it constipation, migraines, infertility, or cancer — that cannot be solved, or at least vastly ameliorated, by changing your diet.There is a kernel of truth in almost every one of these notions. The industrialization of agriculture and food production has led to an overabundance of high-calorie foods, many of which are marketed with a veneer of health because they’re “low carb” or “gluten-free,” while also being largely nutrient-free. Producing these foods causes significant environmental damage and involves the use of chemicals and ingredients that aren’t great for our health.The problems begin when we consider the corollaries to statements like “You are what you eat.” If that’s true, then eating “bad” foods (Big Macs, Slushies, anything made with white flour or sugar) makes you a bad person. Or at least an uninformed, undisciplined one. Organic farmers and food activists may have originally banded together to take on huge corporations within the agricultural-industrial complex. But infusing their arguments with messages about health has led to the rise of a wellness-industrial complex, in which nutritionists, personal trainers, cookbook authors, and other “alternative-health experts” target us for our individual choices.Alternative food and wellness are big business now. The Amazon-Whole Foods deal was worth $13.7 billion. Sales of old-school diet staples like Lean Cuisine meals may have dropped by $100 million between 2014 and 2015, but expensive, largely organic meal-delivery services like Blue Apron generated close to $1.5 billion in sales in 2016. The Global Wellness Institute, a nonprofit based in Miami, Florida, which conducts industry research, calculates that the worldwide “wellness economy” is now worth $3.7 trillion. They attribute $999 billion of that to beauty and anti-aging products, and another $648 billion to “healthy eating, nutrition, and weight loss.” And the marketing around these products and services is just as powerful as any fast-food ad campaign.We are now so certain that every aspect of our health can be improved through diet, we can only blame ourselves when those diets fail. When cutting out gluten doesn’t work, we move on to dairy, then soy. When we still don’t feel better, we start reading about the evils of nightshade vegetables or peanuts. Still feel bloated, or tired, or lacking in energy — all impossible-to-quantify symptoms that may just reflect the unavoidable state of being mortal and not part superhero? Probably it’s because you weren’t careful enough about that gluten. Nutrition has become a permanently unsolvable Rubik’s Cube. So, we read more books, pin more blog posts, buy more products, and sign up for more classes and consultations. And we don’t realize how many of the so-called experts guiding us through this new and constantly changing landscape are exactly where Christy once was — fighting their own battles with food.Today, Christy still works as a dietitian, but she has dramatically revamped her practice. She worked in-house at two eating-disorder recovery centers in the New York area, and now coaches private clients, people who have gotten caught up in our culture-wide fixation with dieting and detoxes, and want to find a way out. She also hosts a weekly podcast, Food Psych, in which she interviews other dietitians, therapists, and people in the wellness industry who are trying to fight back against what Christy alternately refers to as “diet culture” or “the thin ideal.” Food Psych is well ranked on iTunes’ list of the Top 100 Health Podcasts, but when you look at the rest of the list — with names like Half Size Me, Livin’ La Vida Low-Carb, and Vegan Body Revolution — you realize just how hard this thing is that Christy is trying to do.You may have noticed that Porter County, Indiana still had 0 percent reporting for the 2018 election as of Friday morning. In the map below, Porter is that gray county in the upper left. I was a poll worker there this past Tuesday.Buckle up, because nothing in this story goes according to plan.This was my first year as a poll worker. My husband signed up with me. I was a poll clerk and my husband was an election judge (responsible for checking IDs at the door, helping with the scanners, and delivering ballots to the courthouse at the end of the day). We were excited to do our part to ensure every eligible voter in our county was allowed to cast a ballot. Yay, democracy!Our excitement started to wane when we weren’t trained. We emailed multiple times to ask about training. We were repeatedly told we would be trained soon. Finally, on October 26, after we’d practically begged over email to be trained, the county set up classes. However, they made it very difficult for poll workers to attend. Classes were announced at the last minute or were only offered during the workday. Due to the inconvenient and inflexible timing of these classes, I was unable to make any of the in-person training sessions. Instead, I watched the county’s online training videos and thoroughly studied the training manuals.I learned that each precinct has two judges and two clerks, one from each party. They’re there to ensure fairness. An inspector (a.k.a., the boss) is appointed from the leading party in each county. In theory, it’s very balanced. If anything, I’m glad I volunteered because I was able to see how elections work.Before I describe the shit show that was election day, I’ll note that everyone at the polling location was kind and there for one reason only — to make sure every single eligible person had the opportunity to vote. Democrats and Republicans worked together. The Republican inspector was fantastic. Honestly, it was inspiring.However, when we showed up at 5 a.m. on Election Day, we noticed many of the required election officials were missing. Two inspectors were M.I.A., and so were the ballots. We also didn’t have the required Republican and Democratic counterparts for each position. Less than an hour before the election was to start, we were unable to open — let alone guarantee a fair election. The only inspector who was there began making calls.The rest of us did what we could to get ready with limited supplies and people. At 6 a.m., the ballot boxes weren’t working. Inspectors were still M.I.A. We couldn’t open. My stomach sank. I was trying to do something good and now I’d probably be on local evening news.Finally, a sheriff’s deputy showed up with two suitcases full of ballots. (I originally mentioned on Twitter that he showed up after 6, but my husband said he thought it was actually shortly before 6. It was a hectic morning, and I apologize for the initial error.) We were still missing the required Republican and Democratic counterparts for each polling position so we improvised. We combined positions between the three precincts present and opened the polls at 6:12.Whew, right? Not even close. It just got worse.Shortly after we opened, voters from a fourth precinct started to show up. The newspaper had listed four precincts at our location. We knew nothing about this, and we had zero workers or ballots for a fourth precinct (we barely had what we needed for the three precincts we knew about).I wasn’t about to let these people just walk away without getting a chance to vote, so I got on the phone and started making calls. I tried the election and voter registration office numbers. All lines were busy. I finally tried the state election hotline and was able to reach someone. They informed me that the fourth precinct was not supposed to be at my polling place. So, I began sending those voters to the right address.The clerk’s office had listed the wrong address online. The newspaper used that misinformation in their election article. The Chesterton Tribune later published a correction:Everything should have been okay then, right? Uh, no.I soon learned the new location for the fourth precinct wasn’t open. Poll workers were in the parking lot, locked out. So, they turned voters away. Voters — many of whom I’d turned away — started coming back to our location, desperate to vote. I finally reached someone at the local level and told them about the locked polling location. By this time, it was 6:56 a.m. (nearly an hour after polls opened), and the official I spoke to was hearing about this issue for the first time.It was later reported that the locked location opened at 7:45 a.m., along with eleven other locations in the county that opened at least an hour late. That doesn’t even include locations like ours that opened approximately 15 minutes late.The courts got involved. The Democrats’ lawyers wanted to extend hours at those locations to make up for the late openings. Republicans fought it, originally saying an extension would be unfair (later, according to local media, they claimed the court did not have legal authority to extend voting hours). Thankfully, the state judge ordered the extended hours.But again, this was still not over.Around noon, we were told to expect a delivery of absentee ballots to count and include in our precinct’s vote total. We waited. Hours went by. No absentee ballots.The inspector started making phone calls. By now, it was 5 p.m. and there were still no absentee ballots. This may not seem like a big deal, but we’re talking about 15,000 or so absentee ballots across the county. All of them were supposed to be opened by me and the other clerks. We were supposed to look up every absentee voter in the poll book of registered voters, make sure they hadn’t voted in person, and mark them down as an absentee voter in the poll book. All of these absentee ballots were M.I.A. When 6 p.m. arrived, local officials told us to close without any absentee ballots. The inspector and the judges locked up the regular ballots and took them to the courthouse to be processed.When my husband, an election judge, arrived at the courthouse, he was told he couldn’t leave. Deputies were driving around the county in an attempt to deliver absentee ballots, but they were reporting that polling locations were closed. Apparently, no one could leave until the absentee ballots arrived and were counted. It was all very confusing.At this point, I put on my coat and was about to head to the courthouse myself to help count the absentee ballots. It didn’t matter that I had just worked for 13 hours. I was ready to finish my job. As I was walking out the door, my husband texted me to say I wasn’t allowed to help. Something about “chain of custody”? Whatever the reason, I was told I should stay home.Meanwhile, chaos was breaking out at the courthouse. People were worried about what happened to those absentee ballots while they were missing. Was the election compromised? Word spread that the absentees wouldn’t be counted, but instead would be marked as provisional ballots. Early voters were afraid they had possibly thrown their votes away. Local social media blew up. I tried to keep people informed, but I only knew what I saw and what I heard from my husband. The courts weighed in again to sort it out, ruling that all ballots (including absentee ballots) should be counted and included in the final results.At the same time, races were called. People in my county saw winners announced and knew their votes were sitting in a squad car somewhere, unable to affect the race at all.Lawyers and the courts (and now the FBI) are figuring out what happened in Porter County on November 6, 2018. They’ve reassured us that everything will be thoroughly investigated. We’ve been told that processes will be changed so this never happens again. Porter County’s election results have just been released, but the damage has already been done.It’s one thing to see a race called with 50 percent of your precinct reported. Your vote could have been in that 50 percent. Yes, technically, your vote could have been in the half not yet counted, but still, you can believe your vote mattered, even if your candidate didn’t win.It’s a completely different thing to know that your vote couldn’t possibly have mattered due to the incompetence of your local government. To know that officials in charge of the election did such a shoddy job that your ballot was sitting uncounted in a box in the trunk of a squad car as the rest of the country made critical decisions about its future.Officials in charge of this election weren’t equipped to do their job. They didn’t train us. They were short staffed. They broke multiple election laws, and I’m not sure they’ll ever be held accountable.Note: Elections in our county used to be run by an election board. This year, they voted to have the County Clerk’s office run it instead. The County Clerk was one of the deciding votes that made the change happen. That County Clerk, who was now in charge of this election, was on the ballot for County Auditor. Thankfully, she lost. Officials are now asking her to resign.It’s an unspoken downside of innovation: Sometimes a push into new technology can leave certain people behind. Ideas like virtual reality, touchscreens, and 3D television might promise new experiences for most of us. But for people with disabilities, they can mean motion sickness, muscle pain, or worse.This innovation-disability gap is a major problem in video games, and one company is doing a particularly bad job dealing with it. While Nintendo rides high on the success of its new Switch console, people with disabilities struggle to enjoy the company’s games. These gamers complain of trouble navigating hits like Super Mario Odyssey — if they can play the games at all — because they’re packed with fiddly interactions requiring a flick of the wrist or sensitivity to a controller’s vibrations. Nintendo didn’t reply to a request for comment before deadline.These problems with the Switch have actually plagued the company’s products for years. The company’s Wii console, launched way back in 2006, also relied on innovative motion controls that shut some people out of the system — ironic, because the Wii was supposedly designed around accessibility.Super Mario inventor Shigeru Miyamoto wanted to make a game controller that got away from the complicated buttons, sticks, and triggers you might find on a typical gaming joypad. Aware that nongamers might be intimidated by something like the standard Xbox 360 controller, Miyamoto created the Wii remote with an accessible design “that would make people want to pick it up and try using it.”The remote ended up being painted in glossy iPod white, had few buttons to press, and looked like a stylish TV remote. But the secret ingredient was a motion-sensitive chip that could translate swipes, wiggles, points, and shakes into gameplay on the screen.Suddenly, playing a golf game was as intuitive as holding the controller like the handle of a putter and swinging it toward the TV. The Wii remote could magically transform into a tennis racket or baseball bat, a conductor’s baton or a musical instrument, a sword or a pistol.This opened up gaming to a whole new audience, just like Miyamoto dreamed. There were stories about Wii bowling leagues in retirement homes and reports about the console showing up in Buckingham Palace and Obama’s White House.But for those with certain disabilities, the Wii remote proved to be completely inaccessible.Riley Park, 28, told Medium that he’s always loved Nintendo games. The first console his family owned was the Nintendo 64, and they kept playing with it until the Wii came out in 2006. But around that time, Park was diagnosed with essential tremors, a nerve disorder that causes parts of your body, usually your hands, to shake uncontrollably.“Small movements really cause my hands to shake, to the point where I sometimes require both hands to hold onto a spoon,” Park said. This made gaming with a motion-sensitive controller very difficult.“I had continual problems,” he explained. “Whenever any game required you to hold the remote in a certain still position for a time, like with Mario Party or the Rabbids party game, I often failed those. I sort of stopped playing games that were like that entirely, especially around friends.”The success of the Wii inspired other companies to dabble with controllers that created hardships for people with disabilities. In 2010, Microsoft launched the body-sensing Kinect camera for Xbox, which Wired memorably dubbed a “Wii-too product.” With games like Dance Central, it asked players to flail about, swing their arms up and down, and generally make massive fools of themselves. Needless to say, that was practically impossible for gamers with any number of physical disabilities.Years later, companies would launch virtual reality headsets like the Oculus Rift. These technological marvels can leave people with inner-ear conditions like vestibular neuritis feeling queasy.And when online multiplayer games started introducing voice chat, they left gamers who were deaf unable to communicate with team members.Though innovations like the Kinect could largely be ignored, all of Nintendo’s recent consoles have focused on technical gimmicks that exclude players with physical disabilities. If you want to fully enjoy some of the most popular games on the Switch, you will have to deal with motion controls.Hannah Wooffitt, 24, lives with chronic fatigue syndrome, and being bed-bound for multiple years has caused her muscles to atrophy. “Nintendo’s motion controls are my enemy,” she said.“My boyfriend loves Nintendo games, but there are few multiplayer games that I can actually play,” she added. “He was excited for a new Mario Party on the Switch in the hopes we could play it together, but when he bought it, we quickly found out that it was motion controls only, so that was the end of that.”Super Mario Odyssey, the latest entry in the long-running franchise, is littered with similar problems. The bombastic adventure locks many of its special moves behind motion controls. If you want to launch your buddy Cappy at enemies like a homing missile, for example, you need to frantically shake the controller (or, if you’re playing in handheld mode, the entire system).“I love Odyssey, but I have found some of the advanced spins and jumps nearly impossible to do,” Park said. Wooffitt ended up having to watch her boyfriend play the game rather than enjoy it with him.You can’t turn off those motion-powered moves, leading a gamer with Parkinson’s to rant on Reddit: “Is it possible to not throw Cappy every three seconds when your hands shake like a fucking washing machine on spin cycle?”There’s a lot Nintendo could do to fix these problems. It routinely has basic commands tied to wiggling a controller, like pounding on the floor in Donkey Kong, pirouetting in Mario Galaxy, or swinging a sword in Twilight Princess. These moves could easily be triggered by a button press, if only there were an option to do so.And if you look beyond Nintendo games, you’ll find that gaming is more accessible than ever, as game makers have figured out how to make them work with different disabilities.The addition of symbols in the color-swapping puzzler Hue make the game playable even for people who are color-blind. Fortnite helps people who have trouble hearing with an option that translates the sounds of footsteps and gunshots into visual indicators. Both PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, the two major rivals to the Nintendo Switch, let you change which buttons do what across the entire console.Best of all is Microsoft’s new Adaptive Controller for Xbox One and the PC. This cool bit of customizable equipment can clamp onto wheelchairs and hook up to all manner of accessible inputs like foot controllers, one-handed joysticks, and easy-to-press switches.But while the controller can even work on PlayStation consoles and Macs (with the right adapters), “the only place it does not work is with any Nintendo consoles,” said Steven Spohn, chief operating officer at AbleGamers, a charity that advocates for gamers with disabilities.Spohn worked with Microsoft on its Adaptive Controller but said Nintendo has “repeatedly declined to work with us.”“It breaks my heart every time someone with a disability emails me excitedly, claiming they are getting a Nintendo Switch, and they want to know how to make it accessible, because nine times out of 10, we can’t make it any more accessible,” he said.Nintendo has offered some good accessibility options in certain games. Beat ’em up ARMS lets you completely customize the game’s controls. Colorful shooter Splatoon 2 is considerate of color-blind gamers. 1–2 Switch’s hyperdetailed rumble feedback makes it playable for gamers who are blind. Back in the 1980s, the company even came up with a bizarre-looking hands-free controller that made the NES playable for gamers who are quadriplegic.But overall, in 2018, Nintendo is lagging far behind other gaming companies that haven’t had to leave gamers with disabilities behind in the pursuit of innovation and hardware gimmickry. If Nintendo truly believes in its mission to make gaming more accessible to everyone, it needs to work much harder.In a marginally better anticlimax than most M. Night Shyamalan plot twists, reports indicate that Amazon has decided to split its HQ2 between Long Island City, New York, and Arlington, Virginia. Mercifully, Amazon’s grand quest to use the starry-eyed idealism of mid-market politicians as a tax-evasion bargaining chip against NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio and Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam is finally over. New York is getting 25,000 more sweaty bodies on the rush hour 7 train while Arlington will have lunchtime lines at Sweetgreen that stretch into the Pentagon parking lot.Overall, the HQ2 hoopla was a brilliantly executed PR stunt that was created to keep Amazon constantly at the top of American consumers’ minds in a narrative that it squarely controls. HQ2 provided Amazon with millions of dollars of free earned media and a cover for everything from its warehouse workers peeing in bottles to a precipitously quiet 20 percent decline in its stock price. Along the way, it taught us a lot about the paradox of effectively reporting on and talking about Amazon.As the world’s largest online retailer, the current No. 3 media company in the U.S., a dominant force in cloud computing, and the single-largest corporate influence on the U.S. economy, nearly everything that Amazon does or says is “news.” But staying focused on which of Amazon’s announcements are actually newsworthy and deserving of analysis while Amazon continues dropping flying drone warehouse red herrings is near impossible.South Africa’s premier investigative journalism outfit calls itself AmaBhungane, Zulu for “dung beetles,” in a proud acknowledgment that the literal function of media is to sift through shit so that the rest of us don’t have to. Thus, the more shit you throw at journalists, the tougher the job becomes. And, arguably, no American entity outside of the White House creates more news than Amazon.On the same day that Amazon’s double HQ2 was leaked (and one day before the most important midterm election of our lifetime), the company announced free shipping during the holidays, introduced a program to hire its own drivers, and said that it would no longer host booksellers from South Korea, Hungary, and other nations. Good luck trying to analyze any of those things in-depth for a story on deadline. Thinning newsrooms lack the resources to dig every signal, so they’re forced to publish a hell of a lot of unfiltered noise.For example, the grapevine chatter last month that Amazon was “considering” opening 3,000 Go stores spurred weeks of speculation about Amazon’s impending invasion of brick-and-mortar retail stores from nearly every major American media outlet. But here’s the rub: Every company is “considering” doing anything at any given time. Faux announcements like this create an anti-competitive advantage for Amazon by taking real value out of companies. Whether or not Amazon explicitly intends to, the company blatantly manipulates the market simply by issuing press releases, and reporters are willing participants.The risk here is that when Amazon sneezes, the entire retail sector catches tuberculosis. Stitch Fix’s stock slid 20 percent upon the announcement of Amazon Scout, a service that is initially focused on home design and that, in its current iteration, actually presents no discernible threat to Stitch Fix’s business model. As any Amazon action produces an equal and opposite reaction, covering unsubstantiated Amazon rumors is dangerous business.There’s also a tendency in media to overestimate the magnitude of any statistic that has to do with Amazon. A figure like 3,000 convenience stores sounds like a paradigm-shifting amount until you consider that 7-Eleven has 11,000 stores in Thailand alone. Consistently, Amazon’s market capitalization is erroneously conflated with GDP (the correct framework would be to compare Amazon’s revenue with GDP), creating an archive of incorrect assertions that Amazon is more valuable than the aforementioned Thailand. Ultimately, this contributes to a self-fulfilling prophecy. Because Amazon is so big, any tactical action it takes is immediately declared to be game-changing. The flood of (often superficial) media coverage then takes off, essentially providing a windfall of free marketing for the everything store.As many of Amazon’s big-tech compatriots come under increased scrutiny, Amazon has a key trump card that keeps the public sentiment largely in its favor. CEO Jeff Bezos is a brilliant writer and a maestro of a storyteller, capable of seducing the tech media with his prose. You can learn more about the fundamentals of business by reading a single Amazon letter to shareholders than you do in most MBA programs. As a result, these letters are religiously quoted verbatim by reporters, allowing Bezos to directly define how his company is portrayed in the media.Combine the scale of news created by Amazon, the dearth of reporters covering retail markets, and a CEO who is the biggest walking sound bite since Yogi Berra, and you have a company whose control of its public perception is unprecedented. And as a company that can bend the global economy to its will, Amazon should be subject to far more in-depth investigation and scrutiny. The grand strategy that Bezos chooses to pursue will largely set the agenda on Wall Street and Main Street and may well impose more tangible effects on many Americans than what happens at the polls.Going beyond the scattershot headlines, here are the five Amazon stories that are really worth following, each with existential consequences for the U.S. economy and society.At its core, Amazon is simply a search engine with a gargantuan fulfillment center attached to it. While the exact number varies depending on the survey, nearly every major U.S. media outlet has gone on record stating that 50 to 55 percent of product searches begin on Amazon. The subtext is that Amazon, amid its myriad other competitive advantages, has displaced Google as the world’s most valuable search engine.However, the studies that support Amazon’s dominance in product searches omit a key detail: Not all product searches are created equal. Amazon currently owns transactional searches but has struggled to displace Google when consumers are still researching what they want to buy. (But don’t expect Amazon to live with that status quo for much longer.)In understanding who will win the future of commerce,no single metric is more important than the genesis of product search. In Forbes, former Target executive Chris Walton says that product searches will be the “leading indicators that will predict who will thrive in the new era of retail. First product search trends, not quarterly store or digital sales performance, over time, will better highlight true staying power.”Longer term, Google has an existential decision to make: Should it continue to be the conduit for other retailers to compete against Amazon, or should it invest heavily in transforming its business to become an e-commerce fulfillment engine of its own? While there are strong arguments for each, Google so far has focused on the former, a win for Fortune 500 retailers and small e-commerce shops alike. But with billions in cash on hand, Google is just an Instacart or Shopify acquisition away from rapidly altering the paradigm of e-commerce and taking on Amazon more aggressively.More than any other head-to-head clash among tech titans, the battle for product search supremacy will have far-reaching implications across how Americans spend their money. Buckle up for the great search wars to come.The reason Apple became the first company with a trillion-dollar valuation is painstakingly simple; they owned the millennium’s first trillion-dollar innovation. And Amazon is best positioned to own the next.Reports that only 2 percent of customers had made a purchase via Alexa have caused the market to sleep on the pending revolution in how we interact with our devices. At its essence, voice is a more natural medium for humans than typing, particularly on a five-inch interface, which is a learned action. The iPhone essentially has reprogrammed human behavior, driving trillions of dollars in market shifts in the process. Voice can take us back to a more natural state and cause similarly seismic shifts.The caveat is that unlike Apple and the iPhone, Amazon doesn’t have to wait for the traditional adoption curve; it can force the issue by subtly inserting voice technology into our daily lives. Amazon is beginning to embed Alexa into everyday devices, starting with the prodigal microwave. While many consumers have chosen not to invite Alexa into their homes, they may now do so unknowingly when they use Amazon to buy a simple household appliance. Across the U.S., 13 million microwaves are sold every year—a bounty of opportunity for Big Brother.Think again about product searches. In 10 years, the dominant medium for them will be instructing your Alexa or Google Home, “Buy me the best headphones for running.” In response, your device will output a highly curated result full of expert recommendations, consumer reviews, and the most competitive price. While it’s hardly the aesthetic or tactile experience that many love about shopping, voice commands could set a new standard for convenience. Without the visual interface to shop around and compare prices, the voice medium is inherently susceptible to dominance by one platform.Whether that platform is one that directly sells you goods (Amazon) or directs you to other merchants (Google) will determine the overall competitiveness of the retail ecosystem of the 2020s.By the end of the year, Amazon will have brought in $10 billion in annual advertising revenue. For context, the (thriving) New York Times makes about $200 million per year off digital ads, meaning that the retailer makes 50 times as much money selling ads as our nation’s premier newspaper.But with its advertising business, Amazon is collecting something far more valuable than just immediate cash payoff: data. The moment brands choose to sell on the Amazon marketplace, they begin handing Amazon the blueprint for how to put them out of business. Listing products on Amazon leads to a plethora of information on exactly what sells, and paying Amazon to sponsor a given product tosses kerosene on the data inferno.For example, Levi’s is one of many iconic brands aggressively ramping up its spending on Amazon. But will Americans still value Levi’s 150 years of brand equity when Amazon launches its own label of blue jeans that also make your butt look great and cost half the price? The $64,000 question is how Amazon will choose to use all this data. Will they try to move us toward a brandless society, building hundreds of thousands of AmazonBasics and Amazon Essentials? Or will Amazon decide that its long-term best interest is not to displace too many of the merchants that sell products on its platform?Despite the deluge of merchandising data it is collecting, Amazon’s ardent embrace of advertising looks a bit murky amid its overall grand strategy. It’s the classic platform play—once you control consumer attention, monetize it by any means possible. Put another way, by being obsessively customer-centric for two decades, Amazon can now sacrifice UX for new buckets of money because it’s too powerful to stop.About 17 percent of search results presented to the user on Amazon are sponsored by the brand, allowing the company to directly monetize one in six products shown to shoppers on its website. For comparison, roughly 1 to 2 percent of search results on Target, Walmart, and other large multi-brand retailers are sponsored. While this strategy adds high-margin revenue for Amazon, it is billion-dollar wise and trillion-dollar foolish. Amazon made it this far by relentlessly focusing on customers and pursuing long-term customer-centricity over short-term profit opportunity. A feed in which one in five products is an ad is a direct rebuke of that ethos.In the next decade, Amazon will transform online media by displacing Facebook as the primary aggregator of content. Amazon already has such an affinity for content that in the early 2000s, the company was paying writers to create reviews of products it didn’t even carry yet, realizing that investing in quality content would make the website a destination. In a nutshell, an e-commerce company conceptually saw the power in hosting content online before media companies did.In a similar vein, 65 percent of all affiliate links on outlets such as Wirecutter, CNET, Best Products, and BuzzFeed direct to Amazon. These are relationships that Amazon has cultivated since the genesis of these sites that effectively turn prestigious publishers into content marketers for our largest retailer. But Amazon won’t stop there. It’s only a matter of time before Amazon cuts out the middleman (Google) and decides to host publisher content about products directly on its platform. Doing so would make Amazon’s search experience far more compelling while also providing additional revenue for commerce publishers. Some publications will hold out on tying their fate to another large technology platform, but the vast majority will welcome the additional distribution.And if Amazon succeeds at hosting commerce content on its platform, why not take a crack at hosting all publisher content on Amazon? While its traffic is dwarfed by Facebook, Amazon receives more monthly visits than the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, and CNN combined. Right now, a few companies’ algorithms pick and choose exactly what consumers see, and they’re frankly doing an awful job of it. Why shouldn’t Bezos think he can do better? Five years ago, he bought a venerable newspaper that had just laid off more than 40 reporters. This week, that same paper announced 13 new reporting roles, including perhaps the most ironic job in the U.S.From a content-serving perspective, Amazon has already built the most sophisticated recommendation algorithms for commerce—IP that can be repurposed for content personalization. First teased by Nicholas Negroponte in the mid-1980s, the personalized newspaper is an idea that bubbles up as a possible savior of journalism every five years or so only to crash spectacularly. But despite its repeated failures in practice, the concept has unrealized commercial appeal if done correctly. Bytedance, a company best known for building a news aggregator and content personalization engine, is valued at $75 billion, making it the most valuable startup in the world.From a monetization perspective, pivoting to subscriptions is the name of the game in media, and Amazon is already running a successful subscription business. If anyone can convince you to pay for news, it is probably Amazon. Or it could choose to make any local newspaper free for Prime members, absorbing the losses as a pure philanthropic service to democracy. Making $1 million in profit every hour affords a lot of creative flexibility. Imagine it’s 2025, and folding local news into Amazon Prime has become the lifeline that bailed out hundreds of daily newspapers.If this all sounds hyperbolic and apocalyptic, it is. But benevolent billionaires may prove to be the best of so many bad options for supporting local and investigative journalism. No billionaire is better equipped to pick up the mantle than the man who redefined publishing, saved the Washington Post, and has generally mastered any business built around the art of the written word.It’s not every day that a paper somebody wrote in law school earns them cult-hero status. Yet, that’s precisely what happened when Lina Khan published “Amazon’s Antitrust Paradox” in the Yale Law Journal, earning her a profile in the New York Times and sending off a wave of salon chatter about the peril of modern monopolies.However, despite the rise of “hipster antitrust,” there is still no real political groundswell that Bezos should lose sleep over. Believing that Amazon should be checked with antitrust has yet to cross from Silicon Valley intelligentsia to mainstream zeitgeist. For all the compelling arguments about Amazon’s market power, nobody has yet answered a simple question: How the hell do you break up a firm that most consumers love? Just this week, Amazon effectively made Santa Claus real by announcing free delivery for holiday shoppers. That this ultimately falls on the backs of mail and delivery people, making their job hellish, is still of little concern to most shoppers.In the most significant midterm election in decades, there isn’t a single political hopeful making antitrust a core tenet of their platform. Rather than creating political pressure from both sides, the ideological alignment between Donald Trump and liberals on this has created an uneasy gridlock that makes it hard to fathom any meaningful action being taken against Amazon under the current administration.In time, this will change. When Sears ruled the retail world, the entire Sears workforce reaped the bounty of its success, greatly bolstering the middle class. The Amazon era, however, has mostly enriched an exclusive club of executives and institutional shareholders. I may be insanely naïve, but I think the political scene will normalize a bit after 2020, and someone (likely unknown to the American public at the moment) will rise on the left to combine modern progressivism with old-school Democratic flair. Imagine the personification of Bruce Springsteen’s Wrecking Ball album combining shameless support for unions with marked disdain for uber-wealth. Breaking up big tech on behalf of workers—more so than for consumers—would be an anchor point of this platform.There are signs that Amazon can no longer control its own shadow. Last month, the retailer increased its minimum wage to $15, a move widely regarded as a net benefit to society. But it comes with massive externalities and unanswered questions. What happens to the fabric of a city when it’s suddenly more lucrative to be an Amazon warehouse worker than a paramedic? Expect questions like this to enter the mainstream as Amazon swallows more and more of the country’s enterprise and becomes one of the defining political stories of the next decade.Add all this up, and there really is only one Amazon story. Amazon is a company beyond the reach of the invisible hand, unthreatened by people who buy their ink by the barrel, and is no longer held accountable to the public. Amazon is the consummate triumph of U.S. capitalism, ultimately bound to become the case study for the danger of the system’s unchecked excess.Our health is a combination of genetics and environment. Maybe someone’s genes make them vulnerable to high blood pressure, for example, but by watching what they eat — in effect, controlling their body’s environment — they can keep their numbers within normal levels.Right now, we know a lot about the genetics side of this combination, as an explosion of research has yielded incredible detail about people’s genetic profiles. We also have insight into how our internal bacterial environments — the microbiome — impact our health. But the environmental piece of the puzzle is still fuzzy. We don’t measure all the chemicals we encounter each day, from the microscopic fungi on a walk to the car exhaust on a highway.That is, most people don’t.Michael Snyder, a Stanford biologist and pioneer in genomics, does. For the past several years, Snyder has been wearing a device he invented that measures the environment around him. It’s part of his quest to learn how the environment impacts our health by studying what he calls people’s “exposomes,” or the various air particles, pollutants, viruses, and more that we come into contact with each day.In a recent paper in the journal Cell, Snyder and his colleagues describe what they’ve learned from affixing 15 people with these air-monitoring devices for up to 890 days. Each device is about the size of a big matchbox, and contains filters that trap particulates, chemicals, and microbes from the air around it. Medium talked to Snyder about the study, the exposome, and his own self-monitoring discoveries.Michael Snyder: Yes. The monitoring started when I was doing genome sequencing and other profiles — like gene expression — on myself, 8 years ago. I was using myself as a test subject to get the technology going — I didn’t know I’d be interesting! Then I got diabetes. My genome predicted it, and I got the disease over the course of this profiling. These types of measurements helped me catch the onset of the disease and gave a much more detailed picture of people’s health.With these techniques — like regular testing of blood for changes in gene expression and other readouts — we’re following a group of 109 folks now, many of them for four-and-a-half years or longer. We added wearables about five years ago to continuously monitor physiology, things like heart rate and blood oxygen levels. It helped me figure out when I got Lyme disease, actually. I was with my brother in rural Massachusetts putting up fences, and two weeks later I flew to Norway. When you fly, your blood oxygen levels will drop, but they usually recover after you land. Mine didn’t. And my heart rate was abnormally high. I got a low-grade fever and went to a doctor, who told me I had a bacterial infection. I told him I thought it was Lyme. He recommended penicillin, but I said I think I need doxycycline, which is what you take for Lyme. I measured myself when I got home, and sure enough, I was Lyme positive. It was a perfectly controlled experiment, because I’d given blood before I left and I was negative then.We want to bring big data into health; that’s the motivation. I think the way we do medicine now is very primitive, compared to what it could be. Everybody is focused on disease, but we want to focus on health and transitions to disease. We’ve written algorithms based on the data we’ve collected, and we now think we tell can when you get sick before you realize it, because your heart rate goes up. We’ve shown that on myself and three other people. We’re now trying to set up a 1,000-person study to learn more.That area has been a big hole. We know you’re affected by your genes and your environment, but nobody is capturing the environment individually. Nobody carries around something on their sleeve to monitor their exposure.We took a standard high-end air monitor and re-engineered it. The monitor has a pump that sucks up about one-fifteenth of the air you breathe. We put a submicron filter on the monitor to collect all the particulates in the air. Under that we have a cartridge with a chemical absorbent. We take that filter and elute off the particulates, and sequence, incredibly deeply, the DNA and RNA that’s there. Then we match it up against a custom database with 40,000 species of microorganisms, viruses, plants, and animals. We can see exactly what you’re getting exposed to from the biological side. Then from the chemical absorbent, we elute that off and run it through a mass spectrometer. We see all the chemical structures.The study has just over two years of data on the biologicals; the chemicals we did for only a few months, but nonetheless we learned a ton.The first thing we learned is the exposome is vast. There were more than 2,000 species, from bacteria to my pet guinea pig, registered during my own two years of profiling. Even the guy or gal who wore it for three months for the study was exposed to over 1,000 species. There were close to 3,000 chemical features detected in the whole study.Second is that the exposome is dynamic. It varies a lot. How much of the variation is regional or seasonal? For the part we could figure out, location is the number one factor, especially for the chemicals. The time of year is another important factor. We sampled four people living in the Bay Area — me, and people in Sunnyvale, Redwood City, and San Francisco. We profiled them over the same month, and everybody’s different. The person in San Francisco had sewer sludge bacteria in their samples; there are definitely parts of San Francisco that don’t smell so good. Every time I go to Monterey, I get a fungal exposure. Location really matters.DEET is everywhere, which surprised me; it was in all the samples. There’s a few carcinogens, like the solvent diethylene glycol. A limitation of our study is we don’t know the absolute amounts of exposures; we know relative amounts. That’s something we are working on to pin down. This was really just a survey to see generally what we are exposed to.Right, that was interesting. Pyridine is a nasty chemical. But you can argue this certain ways. If you are very allergic to fungi, which some people are, maybe for them it’s good to have pyridine, although that is a different potentially detrimental exposure.This is not in the paper, but there’s some correlation with health. We’re still trying to sort this all out.Your eosinophils — a type of white blood cell — are actually a measure of allergic response. We can correlate my eosinophils with what exposures are out there. I thought I was probably most allergic to pine, but the correlation was actually better with eucalyptus. One in five Americans has allergies or asthma. It’s useful to know what triggers this.In California, I’m in eucalyptus heaven! I’m not going to cut down a eucalyptus tree, although if a tree ever had to go in my yard that would be the first one to go. Chemical exposures you could try to track and get rid of.We’re going to get these devices on more people — we will try to get inexpensive devices — just to get this out there so lots of people can do this. Ultimately, we have to take samples and analyze them offline. That will be true for a while. But once we figure out what might be most impactful on people’s health, then we’ll try to set up real-time personal monitors for those things.I would argue this is the first map of the human exposome, like the first genome map. We see what’s there, and then we try to understand how it affects your health. As we get more devices out, we will be able to make more associations between allergies and exposures. It would take long-term monitoring to understand the effects of toxins. But I do think we need that data.Finding treatments for Alzheimer’s disease is simultaneously one of the most pressing and difficult tasks in medicine today. Between 2000 and 2015, the number of deaths resulting from Alzheimer’s has shot up by 123 percent. Today, around one in 10 people over age 65 have the disease. The drugs available for Alzheimer’s aim to ease symptoms of the disease, but they cannot slow or reverse its progression. The last time a new medication was approved for Alzheimer’s was 15 years ago.Over the course of Alzheimer’s progression, sticky deposits of protein structures called plaques and tangles build up in the brain and damage and kill nerve cells. Proteins called amyloid-β and tau comprise these plaques and tangles and function improperly in Alzheimer’s sufferers. Drugs to combat Alzheimer’s often try to target these proteins.But in recent years, Alzheimer’s drugs in clinical testing have largely failed to produce adequate results. There are, however, a handful of promising options still in the running. David Geldmacher, a neurologist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, is working on a phase three clinical trial of a drug called aducanumab, which is sponsored by the biotech company Biogen. Medium spoke to Geldmacher about the challenges of drug discovery for Alzheimer’s disease and what keeps him optimistic for the future.David Geldmacher: One of the biggest issues in coming up with effective therapies for Alzheimer’s disease is that we really don’t know critical elements [underlying] the mechanism [of the disease] in most people with the illness.We know 1 or 2 percent of Alzheimer’s cases are clearly inherited. We tend to see, in those individuals, that the illness begins in the mid-forties. Because those mechanisms are so easily understood in the genetically determined cases, that’s what we’ve been able to use in animal models.A lot of work in Alzheimer’s disease is based in animal models with these human genes that cause Alzheimer’s. And things that worked well in animals have not turned out to work well in people. What we have learned, however, is that the process of Alzheimer’s disease begins in the brain years, probably decades, before the first symptoms emerge. In many cases, we’ve been trying to treat the illness too late in its course.What we’ve done in this particular study is use an antibody that has a slightly different configuration that targets a different part of the amyloid [compound] than some of the past treatments have targeted. But, more importantly, we are focusing on the disease very early on, when people have only mild cognitive symptoms. That means there has been less overall damage to the brain, and there’s a greater opportunity to prevent further cell death or rescue cells that have been made sick by the amyloid but not killed by them.The study is underway, so there are no findings that are reportable at this point. In a prior study, which was reported in Nature in 2016, the aducanumab antibody showed that it could clearly reduce the amount of amyloid plaques in the brains of people with Alzheimer’s disease. PET scans were done before treatment was administered and then at the end of treatment. People who received the aducanumab had a reduction in the amyloid burden in their brain. People who received the placebo during the same trial actually had an increased amyloid burden.This demonstrated that the agent is biologically active on the target we want it to be active on. The other thing noted in that trial was that patients on the highest dose of the medication showed some slowing of the progression of illness. This is one of the first studies where that’s been so clearly evident.Interestingly, at six months into the study, the doses did not distinguish themselves, so treatment was not clearly different from placebo. But at 12 months, the difference emerged. That tells us that the process by which the antibody is effective is a gradual one.That’s correct. One of the phrases we use in the field to characterize this type of treatment is a disease-modifying treatment rather than a symptom-modifying treatment. Since the disease is a chronic condition, we would have to assume that it’s going to require ongoing longer-term therapy. We don’t know whether that means lifelong or not. That’s research that still needs to be conducted.The biological agents, like aducanumab and BAN2401 [another molecule under development by Biogen], allow us to see proof of concept. They allow us to see that perhaps removing amyloid from the brain or preventing its accumulation is a valid approach. The next step would be to come up with a more easily produced, more easily administered, less expensive means of doing the same thing. So I view the biological situation as not necessarily the long-term solution for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease, but as opening the door to what future successes might look like.There is a whole second line of antibody therapies for Alzheimer’s that aren’t targeting the amyloid-β protein; rather, they’re targeting the tau protein, which is a critical factor in the neurofibrillary tangle. Several companies are working on anti-tau antibody therapies. Those are very early in development, but if they are successful, they may also open the doors.The market for Alzheimer’s therapies is huge, both in the United States and worldwide. So there’s an opportunity for big pharma companies to develop a very large treatment base, especially for treatments that might be more along the lines of prevention rather than intervention.There’s still a very active community of researchers pursuing new treatments, or more effective ones, for Alzheimer’s disease. Nonetheless, I do feel a great sense of responsibility. If you think about specialists like myself — people who focus on cognitive disorders or degenerative disorders — there are very few of us relative to, say, Parkinson’s specialists or multiple sclerosis specialists.So there is a lot of responsibility in trying to come up with therapeutics for an illness like Alzheimer’s, especially since the projections are that it’s going to dramatically increase in numbers over the course of the next 20 to 30 years. Epidemiological studies suggest that between 2000 and 2050, the number of Alzheimer’s cases in the United States is going to triple, approaching 15 to 20 million people with the illness. Life expectancy has also been progressively increasing, and since Alzheimer’s disease is an age-related disease, the more older people you have, the more cases of Alzheimer’s disease you’re going to experience.She wants to garden, she has studied the concept of love, and she dreams of pizza. BINA48, as you might guess from her name, is not a human, but a robot. There’s something else that makes BINA48 truly distinct, and it has nothing to do with her predilections for human ephemera. Of the small collection of robo-celebrities making the late-night talk show rounds, BINA48 is the only black-presenting one of the bunch. And as social robots continue to creep into the mainstream, her presence isn’t just increasingly necessary — it’s potentially the linchpin to the development of a more diverse society of robots.Creating the world’s first and only black humanoid robot was not the impetus for BINA48’s inception. A bodyless bust with a lifelike head and shoulders, BINA48 was manufactured by Hanson Robotics and is owned and operated by the Terasem Movement Foundation, an organization researching the possibility of uploading one’s likeness onto “consciousness software” for afterlife preservation. Designed as a research project, BINA48 gets her personality, appearance, and namesake from Bina Rothblatt, a real human and co-founder of the Terasem Movement, who uploaded hundreds of hours’ worth of her memories, thoughts, and beliefs to give BINA48 her foundation. In other words, the robot’s skin color was happenstance.“The reason BINA48 ended up being African-American is that she’s based on an African-American woman,” says Bruce Duncan, managing director of Terasem. “We were not actually trying to make BINA48 a spokesperson for all black people.”Regardless, BINA48 has become an emblem of the issue of representation in A.I., opening up the question of who will be replicated in robot form, and why?It is well-documented that A.I. programs of all stripes inherit the gender and racial biases of their creators on an algorithmic level, turning well-meaning machines into accidental agents of discrimination. But it turns out we also inflict our biases onto robots. A recent study led by Christoph Bartneck, a professor at the Human Interface Technology Lab at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand, found that not only are the majority of home robots designed with white plastic, but we also actually have a bias against the ones that are coated in black plastic. The findings were based on a shooter bias test, in which participants were asked to perceive threat level based on a split-second image of various black and white people, with robots thrown into the mix. Black robots that posed no threat were shot more than white ones.“The only thing that would motivate their bias [against the robots] would be that they would have transferred their already existing racial bias to, let’s say, African-Americans, onto the robots,” Bartneck told Medium. “That’s the only plausible explanation.”These types of biases also turn up when it comes to gender. In Singapore, a study of 198 young adults found that respondents felt more comfortable with the idea of a security robot gendered male and a housecleaning robot gendered female. And already, our widespread A.I. assistants, like Siri and Alexa, have been given female personas.Social robots like BINA48, which are designed to one day be our companions and helpers, are not only typically female but also tend to reinforce gender and racial stereotypes: Sophia — arguably the most famous social robot — was designed with the “classic beauty” of Audrey Hepburn in mind, according to her creators at Hanson Robots; Erica, a Japanese robot created by Hiroshi Ishiguro Laboratories, has been called “the most beautiful robot in the world” and sports a doll-like physique and style; and Jia Jia, developed at the University of Science and Technology of China, was inspired by an old story about a fairy who surprises her master with a clean home and hot meals. Jia Jia is also dressed in Han-style clothing, a growing fashion movement in China based on nationalist ideologies.Unlike Sophia, Erica and Jia Jia are not white, but they still conform to their culture’s majority race. And though a reality where social robots act as our daily companions is far off, Bartneck argues that if the field doesn’t incorporate diversity now, it will suffer the same issues that established industries are currently struggling to correct.“We see ourselves in these robots,” he says.BINA48 is leading the charge in this regard, and she is joined by a few other rebel robots. Alter, developed by roboticists Hiroshi Ishiguro and Takashi Ikegami of Japan, appears to be gender neutral, with a silicone face and arms and exposed body. Unlike Ishiguro’s other robots (including Erica), Alter was designed with a minimal humanistic appearance and persona in order to focus on the movement of its mechanical body. Then there’s Matsuko-roid, Japan’s cross-dressing TV show host robot based on human TV personality Matsuko Deluxe.Like BINA48, the elements that make Alter and Matsuko-roid diverse and unique were not the elements that drove their creation. Instead, their gender-nonconforming personas were happenstance, much like the racial biases built into Google’s image-recognition algorithm that identified African-Americans as “gorillas” were happenstance. And that’s the problem: In the absence of a conscious decision to fight bias, bias creeps in.“Instead of leaving this to some sort of randomness, why don’t you just take control and steer it in the right direction?” Bartneck says. “That is a responsibility that robotic developers have to pick up and work on.”Though BINA48 was never meant to be a spokesperson for identity politics, her creators are embracing the fact that she has become just that. The android started her digital life knowing very little of the racial history she inadvertently found herself in. (When asked by artist and activist Stephanie Dinkins, who is working on a project stemming from her conversations with BINA48, if she had experienced racism, BINA48 somewhat nonsensically replied, “I actually didn’t have it.”) Now, however, the real Bina is uploading more information about her history as a black woman onto BINA48, and Duncan, the managing director at Terasem, is working with Dinkins and prominent black celebrities, including Whoopi Goldberg and Morgan Freeman, to support the development of her identity.“When we’re building the architecture of our A.I. future, this is the time to make sure it’s healthy and representative and diverse,” Duncan says. “Not representing the diversity that we are as a species is like saving only four plants out of a rainforest. We’re doing a huge injustice to our own health and well-being if we don’t try to preserve the diversity in the world around us.”Going to Mars will change us — and not just in a touchy-feely, metaphysical way.Over time, we should expect a fair bit of evolutionary divergence between Mars settlers and the human population on Earth, according to Rice University biologist Scott Solomon, who examined this possibility in his 2016 book Future Humans: Inside the Science of Our Continuing Evolution. That divergence will start unspooling at the outset, thanks to something called “the founder effect.” No matter how or when it happens, the Red Planet will be settled by a relatively small group of people who are not perfectly representative of the entire human population. For example, it’s a pretty safe bet that Mars pioneers will be atypically adventurous and risk-tolerant. That means, Muskton — the odds are decent that the first Red Planet burg will be named after SpaceX’s CEO — will likely feature more rock-climbing gyms and bordellos per capita than cities here on Earth.And those initial differences will snowball, because Mars and Earth are very different worlds. The Red Planet is much smaller; the force of gravity on its surface is just 38 percent of the pull we feel here on Earth. Mars also lacks a global magnetic field, a thick atmosphere (though we could remedy that with terraforming), and a protective ozone layer. Mars gets hammered a lot harder than we do by space radiation — UV light and charged particles from the sun, as well as super-energetic cosmic rays zooming in from outside the solar system.This damaging radiation could cause higher mutation rates in the DNA of Mars settlers, Solomon said. Mutations increase genetic variability, so evolution may proceed faster on the Red Planet than it does here on Earth. What sorts of changes could we see over there? Well, for one thing, natural selection might adjust skin tone on the Red Planet, to help settlers cope with that serious radiation load. (Even if they live in modified caves or lava tubes, as seems likely, the pioneers will still have to spend some time on the surface to tend to their crops and attend spring equinox chili cook-offs, for example.) This may lead to dark skin due to increased production of melanin, just as we see among some peoples here on Earth. But other pigments could potentially be pressed into service as well, including carotenoids, the molecules that give real carrots — as opposed to those purple artisanal weirdos — their color, according to Solomon.Mars settlers may also eventually sport thicker bones than their ancestors, Solomon said. That’s because, as research on astronauts in low-Earth orbit has shown, bones become less dense and more brittle in low-gravity conditions. So, Red Planet pioneers with abnormally stout skeletons may do abnormally well, throwing down monster dunk after monster dunk in games of Marsketball while their owned opponents roll around in the dirt clutching their broken femurs and moaning. And Marsketball would be awesome, by the way. If you kept the hoop at the standard 10 feet, all but the most sessile among us could dunk, since you can jump about 2.5 times higher on Mars than you can here on Earth.And Martian colonists may not be plagued by plagues. The long cruise to the Red Planet could serve as a quarantine, keeping nasty germs from getting a foothold in the settlement, according to Solomon. Muskton probably wouldn’t have to worry about the next Ebola or West Nile emerging from the Martian wilds, which appear to be free of viruses and bacteria, let alone any chimps, birds, mosquitoes, or bats to incubate or transmit them. So, if the settlers left their mammal friends at home — the ones we like to eat, as well as the ones whose bellies we like to rub and ears we like to tousle — they could conceivably banish infectious disease to the memory hole. (The pioneers could go vegan, or eat bugs rather than cows and pigs. Insects are much further removed from us evolutionarily and therefore less likely to pass pathogens.) The settlers’ immune systems might then wither like a snipped umbilical cord, eventually atrophying into vestigiality: White blood cells could be the new tailbones.“If that were to happen, if, somehow, a disease were to be introduced to Mars, it would be completely devastating,” Solomon said. “That would set up a situation where any contact between Earth and Mars would be extremely dangerous. Steps might have to be taken to basically eliminate any chance of having contact. Even if there are shipments going back and forth, even if there are people going from Earth to Mars, perhaps they don’t ever come into contact with one another.”This scenario would lead to a cessation of gene flow between Earth humans and Mars humans, and speciation could soon follow.How soon?“I hate to ever put numbers on it, because it’s still such a speculative scenario,” Solomon said. “But you’d be talking about at least several hundred to, possibly, several thousand generations.”This putative outcome doesn’t seem to jibe with our experiences here on Earth, where small bands of pioneers have repeatedly settled new lands without ever diverging into new species of hominid. For example, Native Americans and aboriginal Australians remain in the Homo sapiens fold despite having lived in relative isolation on their newfound continents for about 15,000 and 50,000 years, respectively. But we can take this comparison only so far: North America and Australia are still part of familiar, old Earth, so the environment wasn’t pushing those long-ago explorers to diverge nearly as powerfully as harsh, weird Mars will.Solomon cautioned that nobody can predict how evolution will proceed in the future. Indeed, some folks have a different take on our relationship with those future inhabitants of Muskton. For example, Mars Society president Robert Zubrin thinks the settlers will develop one or more unique Martian cultures but will not radiate into a new species; they’ll just be too close to Earth, with too much contact. He does think this will happen with interstellar settlers, however, partly because of the inevitable cultural differences that will arise.“We’re going to have the power, in principle, to control our evolution, to genetically engineer and influence our children,” Zubrin said. “If we have established ourselves in new star systems, in some places, people will probably say, ‘That’s a great idea; let’s do that.’ In others, they’ll say, ‘Oh, that’s immoral. We should not do that.’ So, whether they do it or don’t do it, it’s going to cause divergence.”Such divergence, he said, could lead to a Star Trek–like panoply of humanoids that differ from each other in just a few trifling respects, such as the color and scaliness of their skin or the number and size of the bumpy ridges on their foreheads. You know, whatever look becomes fashionable on those deep-space outposts, so far from the dominant, original culture and its homogenization machine. Hopefully hipster, skinny jeans won’t make it all the way out to GJ 273b.Of course, the lack of gene mixing among colonists and their forebears on Earth would be an even bigger factor in our species’ interstellar radiation — if there are still any genes around to be mixed. We may have advanced to cyborg/sublimated consciousness form by the time we start moving out among the stars.I have a huge pimple on my cheek when I try Olay’s skin analysis app, Skin Advisor. The app directs me to take a selfie and answer a few questions, like what worries me most about my skin — wrinkles or acne, for example — and what kinds of products I use on a daily basis.I’m prepared for the obvious news: I’m having a breakout. But within a few seconds, the app alerts me to an issue I didn’t know I had. According to Skin Advisor, my problem area is around my mouth, likely because of my smile lines, and I’m directed to buy a $22 anti-aging cream.This is curious, since TroveSkin, the Indonesia-based artificial intelligence app I tried before this one, analyzed my selfie and concluded that my biggest skin problem was texture, and that I should be using exfoliating, anti-aging, and brightening products.Skin Advisor and TroveSkin are two of about a dozen apps from startups and veteran skin care companies that use artificial intelligence (A.I.) to spot your skin woes, provide personalized product recommendations, and track your skin over time. In 2018, Neutrogena released a device and app package called Skin360, which uses a magnifying lens attached to your smartphone to deliver product suggestions. Startup Proven recently launched a personalized skin care line that draws from medical journals and reviews to suggest products based on your responses to an online assessment.The global cosmetics market is estimated to grow to $805 billion by 2023, with skin care accounting for the largest share. Between drugstores, online retailers, and beauty stores, it’s hard to know what you really need or want. Do I have blackheads or redness? Should I try to brighten my skin or start an anti-aging regimen? How do I make my skin look “dewy,” whatever that means? Hyperpersonalization using A.I.-driven technology has caught on in consumer products (think Google Home, Netflix, and smartphone facial recognition), so it makes sense that businesses see customizing your skin care routine as a logical application.Diana de la Iglesia Jiménez, an A.I. and computer engineering expert at the Bioinformatics Unit of the Spanish National Cancer Research Centre, a public research center, says the technology used in skin care apps is the same machine-learning technology used in other industries. “They collect data about you and predict your current needs or the potential features of your ‘ideal’ product,” she says, adding that she understands the technology’s appeal. “If these products are capable of analyzing your specific needs and features, they could bring you a solution more adapted to your real needs.”TroveSkin, for example, encourages you to take a daily selfie so you can follow how your skin is changing over time. I could log in throughout the day to let the app know how I was feeling, how long I slept, how much I exercised, and what I ate throughout the day.Some apps also guess your age depending on your skin’s appearance—what’s known as your “skin age”—with varying degrees of accuracy. TroveSkin, the first app I tried, guessed my age was 23, underestimating it by six years. When I used my laptop camera, Olay’s Skin Advisor correctly guessed I was 29. But when I tested it again using the app on my smartphone, it guessed I was 35.Proven co-founders Ming Zhao and Amy Yuan developed their business in response to their own skin troubles. Before starting Proven, Zhao was working 16-hour days at a private equity job in Hong Kong and “using all kinds of different miracle-promising skin care products, and I felt like nothing made a dent,” she says. “Eventually, someone recommended I see a skin guru to make personalized skin care for me. That was the only time I saw results.”When Zhao met Yuan, a computational physicist, at Stanford University, the duo started building a deep-learning skin care database using scientific studies and consumer testimonials. It now includes more than 8 million consumer reviews, 100,000 skin care products, 20,000 ingredients, and 4,000 scientific journals.Here’s how it works: Customers answer a list of questions about their skin concerns, how their skin reacts to products, and even what they eat. After you complete the quiz, Proven’s machine-learning algorithms scan the database to spit out information about your living environment and lifestyle and how they affect your skin and to match you with ingredients. Zhao says the company partnered with a dermatologist to work on the questionnaire and create the formulations it sells.When I tried the Proven app, I was told I’m not drinking enough water, which is leading to dehydration. Since I live in Dallas-Fort Worth, which has “unhealthy air quality,” Proven told me I’m exposed to pollution particles that cause wrinkles and age spots.To address these environmental factors along with my acne-prone, oily skin and hyperpigmentation, Proven suggested a customized three-product routine that includes ingredients like sulfur (to deal with acne), hyaluronic acid (to retain moisture), and mandelic acid (to exfoliate the skin for a smoother, clearer appearance). The three products cost $195 for a two-month supply.“Personalization is not just a trend. It’s going to be the future of all consumer products,” Zhao tells me. “With Proven, our products are tailored to you [based on] genetics, skin concerns, and environmental factors.”I ask dermatologist Fayne Frey if personalization apps are the future of skin care. Her response is a resounding no. “Apps have little if any clinical skill other than programmed, one-size-fits-all algorithms,” she says.Frey takes issue with some of the questions asked by Proven. Most consumers probably don’t know what’s wrong with their skin or how to answer questions about their level of stress, which is subjective, she says.Frey’s other issue with Proven, Skin360, and similar apps is that they lead consumers to purchase the company’s own products. The tech, according to Frey, is more about marketing than about giving people science-backed recommendations — the latter of which could actually be helpful. It’s a “market that’s feeding on people’s insecurity,” she says.Frey is attempting to create a nonbiased database herself. In 2014, she launched the website and product selector FryFace. Based on a few questions, consumers can find skin care options. She doesn’t make any money from the site and adds products manually. In her opinion, there are plenty of products already on the market that work just fine.Dermatologist Dee Anna Glaser, of St. Louis University, says that if A.I. apps get people thinking about taking better care of their skin, that’s not a bad thing. Unfortunately, A.I.-backed skin care apps are not cheap. For $195, Proven’s customized kit includes one cleanser, one sunscreen, and one night cream. It costs $50 to get Neutrogena’s Skin360 app and the magnifying lens required to scan your skin. Olay’s Skin Advisor appears to be one of the few free-to-use A.I.-driven apps currently available.“All of these A.I. devices lead you to buy some kind of skin care. And if it’s working, that’s great,” Glaser says. “But what I see at my practice is that patients spend hundreds of dollars [on products that don’t work], and then they’ve delayed the opportunity to get better. People with true skin problems would be better served more quickly, accurately, and less expensively” if they went to see a dermatologist.A.I. expert de la Iglesia says there’s another issue: If these apps collect low-quality data (an image that’s too blurry, a question that wasn’t answered properly, or product reviews that are fake), a machine-learning algorithm does not work properly. “I think that the collected data could be of low quality, and so [could] the predictions,” de la Iglesia says.A.I. is making an impact, however, on the detection of skin diseases. Glaser says there are already devices in dermatology offices that use A.I. technology to help doctors detect skin cancer and determine whether a biopsy is needed. As the technology becomes more accurate, it might even be applicable for consumer use.While these apps may provide a good starting point for people who are new to skin care, I wouldn’t use them again unless I was looking to buy a product from the brands that offer them (say, I needed help choosing between different Olay moisturizers). The aim to help consumers select products that are more likely to fix their skin problems is a lofty goal, but in my many years of experimenting, I’ve found which ingredients work for me and which ones don’t — and I’m not sure that an app can be better at selecting products than I am.When my parents told me we were moving to America, I pictured a carousel. Special, beguiling; a place where nothing bad ever happened. In my head, it was like a still photograph of something in motion. The lights were a warm streak of yellow, and the painted horses looked like they were dancing. I was nearly six, and the idea of flying across the world to a place like that was thrilling.This was the spirited creation of a child, sure, but one that had roots somewhere. I don’t know exactly where it came from, but I suspect that the allure of this country — the mythical American dream — is so relentlessly propagated that it managed to worm its way into the unvarnished brain of a small child. It remained fixed in my mind for a long time. Mostly, I leaned on it when my friends disparaged the country they were born in. “You’re lucky,” I used to insist. “People give up everything to make it to America.”And then I grew up, and the carousel broke down. It happened in fits, punctuated by national crises and a rising awareness of my own privilege here and all it afforded me and the position of others relative to me. It happened when I read books and essays, when I made friends, when I witnessed cruelty and did nothing to help. It happened as I filled in the lines of my own personhood, and I began to question what, exactly, personhood meant here in America and who was allowed to have it.The weight of how much the ideal had disintegrated settled itself between my shoulder blades on the day I became an American. My naturalization ceremony — held this past October, on a Friday too warm for the bright-red coat I wore — was ostensibly a salute to more than 140 immigrants. It was also an ominous celebration of nationalistic assimilation and vaguely funereal: I pledged my loyalty to America and left behind the place I came from. There would be no more slipping out of my Americanness when it suited me. The country’s sins were now indistinguishable from my own.Perversely, becoming a citizen presented me with a sense of security. That was one of the reasons I chose this moment in time to become a citizen, after all — not out of some patriotic desire to submerge myself in the American swamp, but because the swamp offered more protection than the shore.People often seem disappointed by this explanation. “That’s why you’re doing this now?” they’d ask, hoping, perhaps, that I was motivated by a sense of civic duty, or that I had gone crazy. But the simple answer, and the one I was loath to give, was that I wanted to feel safe. I wanted proof that I belonged here. I no longer wanted to be able to slip out of my Americanness — not because I considered it to be part of me, but because I didn’t want someone else to decide when it would happen next. Before I took this step, unease was at a constant simmer beneath the surface. My life was not entirely within my control; someone out there could make it hell if they wanted to.And yet the truth is that, growing up, I was always privileged enough to not worry about becoming an American citizen. It never felt like a necessity, and my parents waited almost as long as I did. We moved here because my father got a good job, which meant our immigration status was always relatively safe, and because I was a kid, my parents jumped through all the hoops for me. Until now, I never had to reckon with any of this.It also became a point of secret, mulish pride. I didn’t want to give in. Doing so felt like letting go of some essential part of me — the part that wasn’t from here, that never felt wholly at home, that had always considered herself stuck between two worlds. Citizenship seemed like it would be a fundamental, irreparable transformation of my identity. Maybe I would welcome that someday, but I wanted to be sure about it. Instead, I did it because I felt like I had no other choice. I did it so that if I ever moved away, I had a way back. I did it out of a vague sense of unease, which is, bitterly, the most perfectly American thing of all.It’s also ludicrous. I’m white. My accent is so neutral that I could be a virtual assistant. I’m fluent in Americana. My path to citizenship didn’t involve fleeing violence or persecution. I didn’t risk my life or my family’s life. I haven’t lived in fear of deportation. I don’t get stopped at airports, and on the street, and in my home, and asked why I’m here. I blend in. And so it feels fraudulent to say that I want to be safe. It feels callous to boil down the prodigious step of becoming a citizen to flinty practicality and curdled cynicism when other people give everything they have to make it through a naturalization ceremony.A few weeks ago, a letter arrived in the mail from a county official — the same man who presided over my ceremony — congratulating me on becoming a citizen. He also took pains to castigate those who “take shortcuts,” as if that was a decision born out of laziness and duplicity rather than circumstance and necessity. I wanted to set the letter on fire. I know citizenship isn’t meaningless. I know it’s not just an empty token of appreciation from Uncle Sam. But it’s difficult to reconcile the practiced reverence with which it is treated with the feeling that I got lucky — because of where I came from, because of what I look like, because of what I sound like.These days, I try to remember the carousel. I try to parse what it meant to me and why it stayed with me for so long, even after it became clear that it was nothing more than a fantasy. I lean on what it represented — opportunity, promise, equity — and choose to see that in the things around me. There’s a boy in a tuxedo beaming in front of a massive American flag as someone in his family becomes a citizen. There are people who organize, agitate, and protest. There are candidates running for office who reject the notion of cruelty as the bedrock of policy. There’s the thrill I felt after voting today for the very first time in my life.I want to think about these things. Maybe that’s the migrant mentality: a conscious choice to believe that your new home is better. The sting of leaving the old one behind would be too much to bear otherwise.But then I come back to the catastrophes, recent and older, all with different shapes but the same rotten filling. Brett Kavanaugh, Pittsburgh, Charlottesville, Iraq, September 2008, Ferguson, November 2016. The horrific absurdity of listening to a tall man in a gray suit drone on about how immigrants reflect American values while the current administration punishes and humiliates immigrants of color at every turn. I get angry at myself for believing, again and again, in a myth.I wonder sometimes if this is just what it means to be American, this back-and-forth, this tension between what you hope for and what you know, deep down, to be true. Maybe it gets easier once you learn to walk the tightrope between these two poles, without flailing, without letting one or the other subsume you. I hope so.An estimated 6 million Americans couldn’t vote on Tuesday because they were convicted felons. About half of those people had finished their sentences and left prison. They still weren’t allowed to vote. Roughly half of those Americans — about 1.5 million — live in Florida.Disenfranchisement in the United States has taken on many forms in recent years: voter ID laws and restrictions on early voting are just two examples. But restricting the voting rights of felons is one of the oldest practices on the books. And nowhere has it been more widespread than in Florida, possibly the one state where the phrase “every vote counts” consistently rings true. (See: Bush v. Gore, 2000; Obama v. Romney, 2012; Trump v. Clinton, 2016; Scott v. Nelson, 2018.)But Florida’s ex-felons got a reprieve on Tuesday. Almost two-thirds of residents who could and did vote on Nov. 6 elected to restore voting rights for those who couldn’t. It was one of the most far-reaching statewide results in this year’s midterms, one that could have lasting effects on how future elections play out in this pivotal state.“It’s a really important milestone just in the sheer number of people who will be re-enfranchised,” says Marc Meredith, an associate professor of political science at the University of Pennsylvania who studies felon voting rights.A dozen states deny voting rights to some or all convicts, even after they’ve fulfilled their prison, parole, or probation sentences, according to a 2016 report by The Sentencing Project, a non-profit criminal justice advocacy group. But Florida was by far the most prominent offender. Its disenfranchised felon population was the country’s largest, thanks to the state’s sizable number of prisoners and its relatively harsh sentencing guidelines.“Florida was the elephant in the room,” says Christopher Uggen, a University of Minnesota sociologist and a co-author of Locked Out: Felon Disenfranchisement and American Democracy.While the state has one of the biggest prison populations in the U.S., it has also convicted a disproportionate number of people of color. White people still make up the largest share of felons in Florida. But among African-Americans in the state, 20 percent have been disenfranchised because of a felony conviction compared with 9.2 percent of the overall population.Florida’s voting restrictions stem from some of the darker shadows of the Reconstruction Era, when Southern states often looked for ways to suppress black voters. In 1868, Florida’s Constitution took away felons’ right to vote, even making a crime like petty larceny a felony.Over the last couple decades, felons have unsuccessfully used class-action lawsuits to try to change the law in the court system. In 2007, Gov. Charlie Crist, then a Republican now a Democrat, revised the state’s clemency process and restored more than 150,000 residents’ voting rights. But his successor, Republican Rick Scott, dialed back that process. Under Scott’s administration, only 3,200 saw their voting rights restored.That left few options for Florida’s ex-felons other than going directly to the enfranchised themselves. “It was a tremendous victory,” Uggen says, especially for people “who had older criminal records that may date from the ’70s, ’80s, and ’90s who were really shut out of the electorate.”The result is a historic win for civil rights activists working to reform the criminal justice system, one that’s often stacked against people of color. But what does it mean for Florida’s future elections?For the last two decades, it seemed impossible to hold an election without Florida’s races being decided by the slimmest of margins. Look at Tuesday’s race for the U.S. Senate between Democrat Bill Nelson and Republican Rick Scott. As of Wednesday, the difference in the race was just 30,000 votes. Adding 1.5 million ex-felons to the rolls has the potential to sway those kinds of close races. But whether that happens will ultimately depend on two questions: Which way would they lean politically? And will they vote?Uggen estimates that 80 to 90 percent of Florida’s black ex-felons likely lean Democratic based on how similar populations have voted in other states and that the remaining 75 percent of the total ex-felon population breaks down evenly between Democratic and Republican voters. Uggen points to one study he conducted with NYU sociologist Jeffrey Manza, which estimated that Florida’s ex-felons would likely have voted for Democrat Al Gore over Republican George W. Bush in the 2000 presidential election by a margin of at least two to one, easily making up the 537-vote difference and giving Gore the state, and ultimately, the White House.Another study Uggen points to is a national survey from 2002, which found that “Democratic candidates would have received about 7 out of every 10 votes cast by the felons and ex-felons in 14 of the last 15 U.S. Senate election years.”“I wouldn’t say it’s a big victory for the Democratic party or portray it in partisan terms, but on balance, I think the outcome [of the ballot measure] will likely tilt Democratic to some degree,” Uggen says.The more pressing question might be whether ex-felons will vote at all. According to studies by the University of Pennsylvania’s Meredith and Harvard PhD candidate Michael Morse, in six other states that recently relaxed their voting rights laws, ex-felon turnout ranged from just 8 percent to 14 percent.Uggen, however, says he believes turnout could be higher in Florida because so many ex-felons have been integrated into society over decades and are more invested in their communities than newly released prisoners.Assuming turnout numbers and political preference follows similar patterns, Uggen says it’s reasonable to believe that if ex-felons had voted this week, they would have swayed the election toward Nelson, the Democratic incumbent. They could even have had an effect on the governor’s race, which Republican Ron DeSantis led over Democrat Andrew Gillum by 51,000 votes, as of Wednesday.Similarly, Meredith and Morse estimate that of the 1.5 million Floridians now eligible to vote, an estimated 102,000 would vote for Democrats, 54,000 would vote for Republicans, and 40,000 could go either away. The others likely wouldn’t vote.“It is those races that are so close that there could be a recount,” Meredith says. “That’s where re-enfranchisement could matter.”Ring, an Amazon-owned smart doorbell company, wants to help you and your neighbors gossip about “suspicious activity” on your street with a standalone app called Neighbors. The app, which was introduced in May, encourages people to bring the surveillance state home by uploading video clips and publishing reports about neighborhood activities, which are then broadcast to other users and participating police departments.Ring markets Neighbors as a modern version of an old-school neighborhood watch program, encouraging communities to band together to protect one another and combat crime. In a commercial for Neighbors, a pair of greasy would-be package thieves are deterred from their crime after realizing video of them is being broadcast throughout the neighborhood. No cops are called, but a man walking his beagle, who has been alerted to their presence through the Neighbors app, watches the thwarted thieves drive their clunker out of the neighborhood, crime averted.Two things make Neighbors different than similar services like Nextdoor. First is the exclusive focus on crime. Neighbors prohibits posts that aren’t about crime and safety, which means that if you have nothing suspicious to post about, you’re not welcome to post at all. Second is the direct connection Neighbors forges with police. Not only will you and your neighbors be watching your streets through the app — so will the cops. Police departments can join Neighbors, view publicly uploaded videos, and request additional data from Ring for areas “where an incident may have occurred.” Just like traditional neighborhood watch programs, Neighbors will give cops extra eyes on the streets, but instead of reports from block captains, police will get video streams uploaded by the community.Sure, no one wants to feel unsafe walking down the street or in their own home. In theory, introducing a simple, app-based way for individuals to engage in the most well-known crime prevention program in the country seems reasonable. But no one is sure if neighborhood watch programs actually work.Studies on neighborhood watch are rare, and the data indicates that while some communities with neighborhood watch programs experience a drop in crime, others actually see crime spike. Most see little change at all.What is clear is that neighborhood watch is great at violating people’s civil rights, encouraging racial profiling, and annoying neighbors. And these problems are only poised to get worse as high-tech peer-to-peer surveillance increases.Many trace the origin of widespread neighborhood watch programs to the murder of Kitty Genovese in 1964. Genovese was on her way home from work when Walter Mosely stabbed her in the back and dragged her inside, where he attempted to rape her. Eventually, she bled to death. Two weeks later, the New York Times reported that 37 of Genovese’s neighbors had watched the attack and failed to call the police.The reported callousness of Genovese’s neighbors ignited fury across the country, and officials lamented everyone’s apparent disinterest in the safety of their neighbors. Academics coined the term “bystander apathy.”Of course, the details regarding the bystanders to Kitty Genovese’s death turned out to be mostly inaccurate. The Times itself would report, decades later, that “the article grossly exaggerated the number of witnesses and what they had perceived.” Regardless, her murder changed the way Americans view their responsibilities in their neighborhoods — and their connection to the police.Officials wasted little time harnessing the outrage over bystander apathy and implemented the program of quasi–law enforcement groups that would become known as neighborhood watch. Several volunteer groups arose in the early 1970s, from a group in New York who were trained to give eyewitness accounts of crime to an official Neighborhood Watch program developed by the National Sheriffs’ Association (NSA) designed to quickly disseminate information from the police to the community and promote civic engagement.The NSA program was based mainly on controversial research that came out of the Chicago School of Sociology, which advanced the theory that “social disorganization,” or the lack of social control in society, is what leads to crime. Similar to the ideas promoted by “broken windows” policing, the Chicago School thought that cracking down on smaller-scale crimes, with the help of concerned neighbors, could help prevent more serious criminal activity.The general idea with neighborhood watch programs is that citizens can act as extra “eyes and ears” in the community and report crime and suspicious behavior to the police. These programs grew without fanfare for much of the 1980s and ’90s. Police and communities touted the benefits of neighborhood watch, but actual studies were scant and their conclusions unpersuasive. Nonetheless, communities and police continued to start new programs throughout the country until neighborhood watch became the most well-known crime prevention program in the United States.As neighborhood watch programs grew in popularity, so did surveillance technology. CCTV, the first widely used video surveillance tool, gained widespread popularity in the 1980s and ’90s. The video systems allowed cops to magnify their surveillance by feeding video from several different CCTV cameras directly to a bank of monitors overseen by a single person. Business owners and even private citizens enthusiastically installed CCTV systems in the name of crime prevention and personal safety.CCTV — which seems quaint compared to a network of smart doorbells that are technically controlled by a massive e-commerce corporation — was met with harsh backlash from privacy experts, who called it a violation of civil liberties. CCTV owners weren’t concerned. Not yet armed with Wi-Fi and smartphones, they shared their home security bloopers the old-school way: on America’s Funniest Home Videos. It’s a phenomenon continued by Ring, which regularly promotes funny doorbell videos.This turn toward technology-augmented surveillance also provided ample opportunity for government abuse. At the same time that neighbors began to watch each other in the name of public safety, CCTV cameras began to appear, watching us at the bank, the courthouse, and the store. CCTV cameras were installed first by police to monitor select areas, and then increasingly permeated all aspects of the public square.As policing and technology changed, our prison populations boomed, with changes in drug and sentencing policies mandating more and longer sentences. Along with heightened arrest numbers and longer prison sentences, police saw neighborhood watch as an integral part of a war on crime that disproportionately targeted people of color. While white neighborhoods started neighborhood watch programs, black neighborhoods were decimated by overpolicing and incarceration.After 9/11, personal safety and security took on a new urgency. In 2002, the National Sheriffs’ Association joined with the Department of Justice to pivot its program toward national security. Together, they rebranded Neighborhood Watch as USA on Watch, and communities were encouraged to “become active in homeland security” and to “fight against terrorism.” The terrorism-fighting mechanism was mostly limited to encouraging disaster preparedness among neighbors, but the insider/outsider dichotomy present in Neighborhood Watch programs took on new meaning as Islamophobia ran rampant in the wake of the terrorist attacks.Communities, now believing they were responsible for the security of the entire country, began closely surveilling their black and brown neighbors in the name of homeland security and engaged in hate-based violence in the name of retribution for 9/11. The FBI and NYPD took things further, putting entire communities under surveillance for years, using license plate readers and tapping the phones of blocks upon blocks of New Yorkers who lived in predominantly Arab communities.Although it is not clear why, the Department of Justice eventually pulled funding from the USA on Watch program and reverted to its original moniker under the umbrella of the National Sheriffs’ Association. The shift back to the less exciting, nonterrorism-related activities of the average neighborhood watch, however, did not stem the racism that seems to have seeped into most initiatives.While some neighborhood watch programs do nothing more than host monthly police-liaison community meetings, others have adopted the idea and title of neighborhood watch to patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, looking for undocumented migrants, or to stalk the streets on behalf of the KKK, presumably looking for nonwhite residents out after dark. Many of these groups invest heavily in police and military-grade gear, from mobile command centers to high-tech surveillance gadgets.Some of the problems endemic to neighborhood watch groups were thrust front and center in 2012, when neighborhood watch block captain George Zimmerman shot and killed Trayvon Martin in a Florida subdivision. The resulting trial revealed that Zimmerman frequently called the cops to report black men in the neighborhood as part of his neighborhood watch duties. He was eventually found not guilty, and a large part of his defense relied on his role as a protector of the neighborhood.While the Zimmerman trial was happening, neighborhood watch groups were slowly making their way online with the advent of Nextdoor.com, which launched in 2011. Nextdoor was one of the first major websites to actively solicit and distribute crime and safety information to neighborhood users alongside other neighborhood-related content. After a few relatively innocent years of posts about local plumbers and crowdsourced restaurant recommendations, Nextdoor developed a problem: rampant racial profiling. Posts regarding “suspicious” people of color walking down the road, riding their bike, or otherwise existing in public infiltrated the site. White users complained about people of color in their neighborhoods and described suspected perpetrators of crime in unhelpful and racist terms.Nextdoor initially blamed the problem on racist users, but the company eventually set up systems to nudge members away from posting racist content by requiring posters to describe more than the race or ethnicity of suspected wrongdoers. Nextdoor’s solutions were both lauded as innovative and criticized for not doing enough, but no one seemed to question the underlying rationale for peer-to-peer policing in the first place.In fact, Nextdoor’s successes set the stage for other tech companies to enter the market of nosy neighbors. Canary, a home camera system, allows you to sound an alarm or call the police directly from the app’s interface should you detect an intruder while staring at a video stream of your living room. SimpliSafe, a cloud-based home security system that promises to deter criminals from entering your home and promptly reports any alarms or disturbances to the police, had revenue of $38.5 million in 2013, up from $1.4 million in 2010. In 2018, a private equity and venture firm took control of SimpliSafe in a deal that valued it at around $1 billion.Flock Safety, a Georgia-based security startup, wants to bypass individuals entirely. Flock cameras, which cost $1,500 per year, are “designed to solve crime” by reading and tracking the license plates on cars driving through the neighborhood, storing video footage, and using “advanced machine learning” to turn video footage into the “key images needed to make an arrest.” Ring has built something of a cult following around videos captured through its motion-sensing video doorbells, which the company encourages users to share on the Ring app and social media.Neighbors is the logical next step — a place where video clips from your doorbells and security cameras are cannibalized into content for neighbors to scroll through and police to analyze. But Neighbors is also a glimpse into what seems like an inevitable future where neighborhood streets become a high-tech panopticon and neighbors spy on neighbors.Tech companies are successfully convincing us that personal and public safety mandates a reduction in privacy and that policing our neighbors is the mark of a good citizen. But the decades of American jurisprudence about privacy are not merely the stuff of academic debate: They are a stark record of the abuses that arise when the state has unlimited access to the particulars of our lives. As use of private surveillance and high-tech neighborhood watch initiatives expand, we will have to grapple with what exactly we are willing to sacrifice in the name of safety. Because it isn’t just your neighbors the state wants to see from your video doorbell—it’s also you.Update: Following the publication of this story, a Ring representative emailed the following statement:My Mother’s Day was defined by a blue Rubbermaid storage tub sitting ominously in the middle of my closet. It had been there for days. My husband had brought it down because it contained the gift bags and tissue paper necessary to wrap his mother’s gift and mine.The gift he needed to wrap for me? A necklace I hadn’t asked for and didn’t want. For Mother’s Day, I had requested just one thing: a housecleaning service. The gift, for me, was not so much the cleaning itself but the fact that, for once, I would not be in charge of the household office work. I would not have to make calls, get multiple quotes, research and vet each service, arrange payment, and schedule the appointment. The real gift I wanted was to be relieved of the emotional labor of a single task that had been nagging at the back of my mind.The day before Mother’s Day, my husband called a single service, decided it was too expensive, and vowed to clean the bathrooms himself. What I had really wanted was for him to ask friends on Facebook for a recommendation or call four or five more services — do the emotional labor I would have done if the job had fallen to me.Instead, after presenting me with the necklace, he stole away to deep-clean the bathrooms, leaving me to care for our children as the rest of the house fell into total disarray. In his mind, he was doing what I had most wanted — giving me sparkling bathrooms without me having to do it myself. Which is why he was frustrated when I ungratefully passed by, not looking at his handiwork as I put away his shoes, shirt, and socks that had been left on the floor. That was when I stumbled, again, over the Rubbermaid storage tub and reached my breaking point.For days, it had impeded me every time I needed to toss clothes in the hamper or pick out something to wear. It was shoved, kicked, rolled onto its side, but it wasn’t put away. I couldn’t return it to the high shelf where it belonged without enormous effort and the aid of a kitchen chair, but that wasn’t the real problem. It was obvious that the box was in the way and needed to be put back. It would have been easy for him to just reach up and put it away, but instead he had stepped around it, willfully ignoring it for two days. It was up to me to tell him that he should put away something he had taken out in the first place. If I wanted it put away, I could simply ask my husband to do so. He was easily strong enough and tall enough to do it in mere seconds. And therein was the real problem. It was a simple and obvious task that required minimal effort for him. So why hadn’t he done it? Why did I always have to ask?It was a question that led to a tear-filled fight as I tried to get my husband to grasp why being the household manager who notices problems, delegates solutions, and has to ask in a singsong voice to get anyone to comply is exhausting. I was angry and completely spent. I couldn’t quite wrap my mind around all the things I was upset about in the heat of the moment, and certainly not in a way that would make sense. I didn’t have the energy left to explain the mental load or emotional labor to him in a way he would understand or accept. I didn’t want to walk that fine line of protecting his feelings in order to get my point across. So instead, I wrote it down — all the struggles and frustrations that had led to that mess of a moment — and published it as a feature article in Harper’s Bazaar.The essay quickly went viral. Apparently, many women could relate to the imbalance of emotional labor. Men are pitching in with household chores more than ever —fathers reported spending 10 hours a week on household chores in 2016, compared with four hours in 1965. But the fact remains that in heterosexual couples, the woman is usually the one doing the emotional labor of planning playdates, reading the school handbook, noticing which pantry items are running low and putting them on the grocery list, choosing what to bring to the neighborhood potluck… the list goes on.When I wrote the article and shared it with Rob, I was essentially drawing a line in the sand. I was saying, as clearly as I knew how, that we couldn’t go on without him taking his share of responsibility in our life together. It was uncomfortable, difficult, and, quite frankly, even harder than having a blow-up fight about emotional labor every few months. Implementing a shared standard that worked for both of us meant that both of us had to show up and struggle through our individual hangups together. I had to face my perfectionism, my desire for control, the social conditioning that tied my worth to my ability to perform emotional labor. He had to learn these skills for the first time. He had to face the ways he had unintentionally hurt me by ignoring emotional labor for so long. He had to confront the social conditioning telling him that emotional labor — anything that fosters connection to his whole life — is not for him. It was a whole lot of unpacking to do to figure out things like how to best handle laundry and toddler meltdowns as a team.I was commissioned to write a book about the topic, which quickly changed my life from that of a part-time freelancer to a full-time writer. Around the same time, my husband became unemployed. As my work with the book picked up, his job search hit a wall. He had spent hours upon hours applying for jobs, almost none of which were panning out, as we headed into the holidays. It was time for the pendulum to swing into his corner, and I told him so in no uncertain terms. I was ready for a trading-places scenario — for once, I was going to be the one who filled the role of ideal worker while he shouldered the emotional labor. I explained that having the house be a total disaster when I was working wasn’t something that I could overlook or put out of my mind for a few hours. I couldn’t write with a clear head if I knew a pile of unknown horrors was waiting for me on the kitchen table. It stressed me out knowing that once one shift ended, another was waiting for me. I also couldn’t have him come talk over meal plans with me while I was in the middle of work, or ask any other questions about what to do next while I was on the clock. I needed him to do some real emotional labor — and that meant figuring it out without my guidance and delegation. It was a steep learning curve, but one we both knew he was prepared to master.He did exceptionally well taking on the brunt of emotional labor. Without my constant micromanaging, he was able to find his confidence and start feeling competent in this new role. I still asked if he had checked this or done that, but after a few weeks of realizing the answer was always yes, I stopped worrying that he needed my guidance and focused on my work like I said I would. Rob became the only one checking homework and making sure school lunches got packed and meal plans were made and the kids were picking up their belongings (and he was picking up his own). He wrote all 40 of our Christmas cards when I was too burned out to do them. He was the only one calling and texting his parents for most of the month. He reminded me of things that were on the calendar, even when it was on the wall a few feet from my desk. I hadn’t planned on off-loading so much to him; it simply happened. I would end my work hours and fall onto the couch to read more research books while Rob was the one making dinner and then cleaning up afterward.Then I noticed one afternoon, when I took my lunch break, that he seemed really far off. He was there but not really there. I figured I knew what was wrong — that the job hunt was getting to him or he was suffering an identity crisis, but that wasn’t at all what he described when I asked him what was wrong.“I feel like there’s something I need to be doing, something I’ve forgotten, and I can’t figure out what it is.”He had sent our daughter to school with freshly laundered bedding for her cot, packed a lunch and snack for our son, done the laundry, and cleaned the house, and he had reached a lull in his day. There wasn’t anything, at least not anything important, that he was forgetting. He was bogged down by the mental load, though, and couldn’t seem to think straight. It was a feeling I knew well: the nagging sense that I couldn’t sit down or relax for a moment because there was always something that needed to be done. It’s the creeping anxiety that gnaws at you when you’re the only one carrying the mental load for the family. You’re afraid of something falling through the cracks because you’re so tapped out from trying to make sure nothing falls through the cracks. The anxiety wasn’t a revelation to me, but the fact that it was happening to Rob and not me was eye-opening. This wasn’t what I wanted for either of us. When I examined where we were at the moment, with me devoted to my work and nothing else, I also found myself feeling untethered to my life. When I was solely focused on working, letting everything else fall away, I was irritable and unhappy much of the time. There was a distinct emptiness when I wasn’t tending to any emotional labor at all. My life no longer felt rounded and whole. Neither of us was living in a way that made us feel fulfilled.“It takes trial and error,” writes Betty Friedan in The Second Stage, “to work out the practicalities and the real tradeoffs, with men and women now sharing work and home responsibilities, instead of replacing the dreary realities of one with fantasies of the other.” In other words, it takes a lot of conscious effort to get past the fantasy that the grass is always greener on the other side and start tending the soil where we are. We have to figure out how to balance emotional labor through trial and error. We have to accept that we aren’t going to get it right the first time no matter how clear we are in our intentions. I understood the lesson in theory but was still learning it firsthand.There is a big camp of people (let’s be real, men) who don’t think shared standards should exist. I have my standards; you have yours. If my standards bother you, you can go the extra mile to bring it up to your standard or you can learn to live with it. It’s not my fault that you can’t handle the mess. It’s not hurting anyone; it’s just your personal preference. Why should I have to adopt your standard? Why should I have to change? I’ve heard this argument over and over again. It’s not a problem of my initiative. It’s a problem with your standard.It’s a pretty cruel argument. It argues that one person should either have to suffer or put in a disproportionate amount of work because the other person is too lazy to compromise. It implies that the work we have put into creating a life that keeps everyone comfortable and happy has no value — that we create our standards without purpose or meaning. It’s an argument which states that our standards don’t matter, that our feelings don’t matter, that our work doesn’t matter. When our identity is so wrapped up in emotional labor, it’s an argument that says you don’t matter.This is why emotional labor is such a minefield of hurt and resentment. One person’s arbitrary standard is another person’s lifeline. There’s a huge disconnect when our partners do not understand why we do what we do in regard to emotional labor. It’s not only how we keep our lives running smoothly; it’s how we strive to find happiness. What women seek through their high standards isn’t merely perfectionism — it’s the idea of freedom. When we are drawn into the comparison game, when we feel the pressure to “have it all,” when we try every organizational hack in the book, it’s because we’ve been led to believe that, just around the bend, we will find peace. We will find happiness. We will find the life hack that will finally ease our exhaustion, because we don’t believe we can find that relief in our partnerships.Yet after talking with hundreds of women and seeing the dynamic shift in my own relationship, I can see the lie that perfectionism is selling. There is no plateau of perfection I can reach that will help me care for everyone around me, keeping them comfortable and happy, without becoming utterly depleted. I can’t do it all. No one can. Instead, we can evaluate what parts of our emotional labor are intrinsically important to us. We can soul-search for our real priorities — not the ones that have been predetermined for us, but the ones that stem from us. Then we can do what we do best and rearrange our lives accordingly, with care and attention to detail, not for the benefit of others but for ourselves. We can find the relief we’re searching for by setting boundaries, taking responsibility for ourselves, and surrounding ourselves with people, and especially partners, who do the same.When Rob took on more emotional labor, I became happier and more satisfied with our relationship, which made him more apt to keep doing it. When we were both happy and sharing the responsibility of our life together, emotional labor wasn’t such a drag anymore. In fact, we both enjoyed it, because doing emotional labor together made us feel more in tune with each other. More understood. We were no longer shying away from conversations about what was and was not working, because we were past the point of keeping score or trying to win when it came to emotional labor. We were able to trust each other to do our fair share and learn from each other as we aimed to find what shared responsibility and standards would look like for us.What truly brought us to a balance where we both felt comfortable was the fact that both of us were finally doing the necessary work to understand each other. We were actively working our empathy muscles as we looked at each other’s life experiences. Rob was listening to and processing my lived experiences as I laid them out for him. He was no longer responding with defensiveness, but showing an understanding that led naturally to action. He was giving me what I genuinely wanted — not perfectly folded towels or clean countertops like I thought I wanted, but a partner who truly saw me.The midterms were a feminist triumph: Tuesday was dominated by wins for women — women of color in particular — leading to a record-breaking number of women who will be serving in Congress. There was also a slew of notable firsts, including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (the youngest woman ever elected to Congress), Sharice Davids and Deb Haaland (the first Native American women), and Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar (the first Muslim women). As Cecile Richards put it, “women were the heroes of this election.”Some, however, were the villains.While women were a driving force behind many of the Democrats’ successes, some were also responsible for some of the party’s major losses. After all, it was white female Republicans who brought wins home for Ted Cruz, Ron DeSantis and, possibly, Brian Kemp. Despite efforts to reach across the aisle, the majority of white women who voted for Donald Trump in 2016 have not realized the error of their ways, and likely never will. The hope of changing these key voters’ minds by pointing out the craven bigotry of the GOP or the president’s distinct lack of moral compass was, and remains, a fantasy.It’s time to dispense with the myth of American sisterhood. Women are not a monolith, and the women who support Trumpian Republicans — in the face of horrific injustices — will not change.If they were unmoved by traumatized children being ripped from their mothers’ arms, there is little hope of reaching them on a moral or maternal level. If they are not disgusted by the President’s racist and misogynist speech they are not likely to be swayed by arguments about civility and equality. If the women who are voting for Republicans can look at what is happening to this country and the most marginalized people in it — including themselves — and continue to support them, it may be time to write them off as a lost cause.The truth is that white Republican women are not waiting for their minds to be changed by well-meaning feminists; they are happy to vote for Trump. As author Rebecca Traister has written, “White women, who enjoy proximal power from their association with white men, have often served as the white patriarchy’s most eager foot soldiers.” (Brittney Cooper and Elizabeth Gillespie McRae’s work is invaluable on this front.)I used to believe in spending political energy and capital on changing these women’s minds; I suspect many other women still do. In the run-up to the election, there were think pieces about evangelical women, for example, who could not square their beliefs with Trump’s cruel policies and bombast. I also know plenty of white women who try to chip away at the beliefs of their Trump-supporting female family members, hoping that if they say the right thing or debate convincingly enough, their loved one might see the light.I admire such efforts and imagine it occasionally works. But those who believe it’s possible to flip female Trump supporters on a mass scale are overlooking how unwilling these women are to give up the benefits that white supremacy and patriarchy have bestowed upon them.Instead of focusing on women who have long shown us where their loyalties lay, Democrats are better served by continuing the grassroots organizing we saw by some of the winning women this week: Reaching out to voters who have been abandoned by the left or working to enfranchise voters whose rights have been suppressed.So I’m still counting this week as a feminist win. America’s political representation is one step closer to looking like Americans, and there’s no going back from the wave of activism and democratic participation that led to this point. But it wasn’t only women — and definitely not all women — who got us here. And it won’t be all women who continue the fight.It has become my habit to check social media when I first wake up, a consequence of this modern age. I wasn’t sleeping well, so this morning I checked my phone around 5 a.m., expecting to see continued analysis of the midterm elections and maybe a charming news item about Cardi B. I…A runny nose or cough are normal symptoms during the fall, but this year doctors in the United States and Canada are reporting an escalation of symptoms among a small but notable number of kids. One day children have a cold, and the next they’re experiencing polio-like paralysis. It’s not the first time this has happened, either.The condition is called Acute Flaccid Myelitis, or AFM, and it’s a rare disorder that impacts a person’s nervous system. Over the last couple of months, a rise in AFM cases among kids has puzzled doctors. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says that there have been 219 cases reported in 2018 thus far, and 80 cases confirmed in the U.S. The Public Health Agency of Canada reported that there were a combined 44 cases under investigation or confirmed. Currently, 90 percent of the people affected are children under the age of 18.Clusters of these symptoms appear around flu season. In the fall of both 2014 and 2016, there were similar reports of these inexplicable cases. While there are several theories about the cause, much remains unknown about AFM.“The problem with this condition is [that] to some extent there’s more questions than answers,” says Dr. Jeremy Friedman, an associate pediatrician-in-chief at The Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, who is treating several children with the mysterious paralysis. “In this particular cluster, we’re talking about a dozen cases in a condition which we normally see a few times a year.”Here’s everything you should know.This is the hardest question to answer. The ambiguous nature of AFM comes from the lack of evidence to explain its cause. The periodical nature of the illness offers some clues, according to Friedman. The virus has historically spiked in the late summer and early fall. Right now, doctors are homing in on a group of viruses called enteroviruses.In previous cases, doctors combatting clusters of AFM in 2014 and 2106 have suspected a strain of enterovirus called D68. Enteroviruses are in the same family as polioviruses, and have no vaccine or specific treatment. This means that patients need to wait out the course of the disease.This year, the link is not as clear, says Friedman. “We have seen a few [people] test positive for enterovirus, but only one has tested positive for enterovirus D68,” he says. “That particular strain of enterovirus does not seem to be as big a feature as it perhaps was in 2014.”Also stymieing the search for a solution is the unprecedented nature of the disease. Friedman believes a viral cause is still a strong theory, but more research is needed.The disease affects the body’s nervous system through damage to the spinal cord. Coinciding inflammation in different regions of the spinal cord causes a range of paralysis-related symptoms. “Depending on what part of the spinal cord is affected, you might see an arm that’s paralyzed, you might see a leg that’s paralyzed, and you might see both legs,” says Friedman.Doctors have been able to isolate viruses in the noses of the sick children, but have not actually been able to find evidence of enterovirus in the spinal fluid of affected patients. According to Friedman, this could be a sign that children’s immune systems could be to blame for some of the symptoms they’re experiencing.“It makes it seem a bit more likely that it’s not the virus infection that’s causing the symptoms per se, but it’s more related to the body’s immune response, that’s triggered by the viral infection, that might be causing the symptoms,” he says.There’s currently no cure for AFM, but doctors can alleviate its symptoms. Treatment strategies are different based on what a person is experiencing. Currently, doctors use physical therapy in combination with intravenous anti-inflammatory medication to reduce the damage on the spinal cord. But Friedman told Medium that some children still need other, “more sophisticated” treatments to try and help with immune response.While some children appear to be improving more rapidly than in previous years’ outbreaks, some will require more intensive treatments. With our current understanding of AFM, predicting individual outcomes has proven to be very challenging.“I think that when one counsels families, one has to be really honest and transparent about the fact that there really isn’t enough experience with this condition to accurately predict how each individual case is going to play out,” Friedman says.Most of the kids currently affected by AFM have begun to recover or are already recovered, with a few exceptions, says Friedman. Since the initial news of the Toronto outbreak in October, the number of cases has not grown dramatically.“I would say that I think the cluster of cases that we’ve seen at SickKids seems to have slowed down,” Friedman says. “And really, we haven’t seen a lot of activity over the last week at all.”But there is still work to do. The CDC and Public Health Agency of Canada will continue to investigate the epidemiological aspects of the illness — or the larger picture details of how the disease is transmitted in a community. There are also coordinated efforts by doctors and researchers who are treating the disease on the front lines. “There is, in Canada, a group of pediatric neurologists that are sharing all the cases that are being seen across Canada, to pool whatever information they have to try and sort of maximize the learning that can be extracted from this experience,” Friedman says.The best ways to reduce the risk of AFM are still under investigation, but the CDC recommends that people wash their hands frequently, as it’s one of the best ways to avoid getting sick and spreading disease.Three years ago, I up and moved to what could appropriately be called the middle of nowhere. I’d always lived in or near a major metropolitan area: I grew up in a busy Philadelphia suburb and went to college in New York. But when my partner’s company asked him to relocate somewhere significantly sleepier, I decided to tag along.In my corner of central Pennsylvania, I’m separated from most of my neighbors by sprawling cornfields. The local Dollar General is pretty much the only place to pick up ice cream or eggs after 8 p.m. The pizza joints and Chinese restaurants don’t deliver. There’s no Uber, though I did once see a car with a pink Lyft mustache in the windshield. It was so out of place that I took a picture.It took me a long time to get used to my rural surroundings, but there’s a lot I love about being here. I have backyard chickens and beehives and enough space to let my dogs wander. I never have to get out of bed to make sure the doors are locked, because even if they’re not, there’s nothing to worry about. At night, there are plenty of stars, and in the morning, a whole chorus of birds.While my move was kind of extreme, it falls within a crowded category: Across the United States, people are leaving cities for smaller towns and suburbs, and they’re all experiencing different versions of the same adjustment process. According to U.S. Census data, between 2010 and 2017, several major cities nationwide had negative net domestic migration, meaning that people moving out of these urban centers outnumbered people moving in from other parts of the country. In the New York metro area alone, 900,000 more people left than came in during that time period.Constantine Valhouli, co-founder and research director of real estate analytics firm NeighborhoodX, says the big-city shine that appeals to twentysomethings can start to wear off for those looking for more permanency.“Unless you own property — something very few people can afford to do in a place like New York City or San Francisco — you’re at the mercy of a landlord,” Valhouli says. “I think feeling like you’re never going to have any kind of ownership or be able to play at that level detaches people from the city in some way.”But leaving a city, especially if you’ve lived there for a long time, has its own unique challenges. “One of the first researchers of place attachment said part of who we are comes from where we are,” says Leila Scannell, a postdoctoral research fellow at Royal Roads University in Victoria, British Columbia, who studies the way place affects our identities and behaviors. “If you ask people to write down five things about themselves, 90 percent of the time, one of those things has to do with place.”Because attachment to place is so important, a significant move — like, say, from a vibrant metropolis to a sleepy suburb, or even a smaller city — can send you reeling. “When you lose a place you’re attached to, it can cause grief, disorientation, and longing for the past,” Scannell says. “Homesickness is real, and it can be difficult to navigate.” That’s even more true when your move comes with a major lifestyle adjustment.Which is why Valhouli suggests taking things slow. If you have some flexibility around the timing of your move, “Don’t commit without staying there for a while first,” he says. “Use Airbnb. Stay for a week in the spring and a week in the winter. See what it’s like year-round. If you jump right in, a move like this could be traumatic. Do your research first to make sure it isn’t.”Once you’ve made the leap, you can ease the transition by holding on to some specific aspects of your old life. “Bring as many traditions and elements of your former environment as you can along with you,” Scannell says, even if you have to tweak them to fit your new setting. If you had a windowsill garden at your previous place, for example, set up a new one with similar plants in your backyard. If you always stopped at the same coffee shop on your walk to work, find a similar go-to you can easily drive to. You can’t replicate the hustle and bustle of your old life, but smaller, more focused efforts may be enough.It also helps to cultivate hobbies that are better suited to your new location than they were to your old one. I love to hike with my dog, Olive, for instance, and I started to really fall in love with my adopted hometown when I realized it’s only a few miles from the Appalachian Trail. On days when I don’t feel like walking, I can have my kayak in the Schuylkill River in less than 30 minutes.“Connection to place based on activities is important to people,” Scannell says. “Get to know the unique parts of the place that make it special. Find out what you can do there that you can’t do anywhere else.”One of the most important parts of place attachment are your ties to people in your community. This is also one of the most challenging parts of a move — especially if you’re entering a new, smaller dating pool.Even making new friends can be tough. For the first few months after my move, I knew almost no one. When I started craving connection and friendship, I had to get creative. I signed up for group rock climbing lessons, auditioned for a community play, and asked cool-seeming girls at the gym on friend dates.“As tough as it can be to live in a city, there’s a certain effortlessness,” Valhouli says. “You can go for a stroll and find an art gallery or go to a lecture and meet people with similar interests. When you get into these small towns, you have to be more proactive. When your default is ‘there’s nothing going on,’ you have to work for it a little more,” whether the connections you’re seeking are romantic or platonic.One upside to a more limited social scene: Becoming a member of a tight-knit community, Valhouli says, could give you more of an opening to reshape the things you might not love about your new home. But, he cautions, don’t jump right in.“Don’t try to change things, at least not right away,” he says. “At first, just listen and learn. Find out what people are complaining about and what issues they get active over. It’s amazing what you’ll pick up after a year in a place if you don’t come in trying to be the big-city person with a lot of ideas.”In the meantime, if you’re having more trouble adjusting than you expected, Scannell has good news: One thing she’s learned from her research — some of which focuses on people who report being extremely dissatisfied with where they live — is that things get easier the more time goes by.“If you stay in a place long enough, you’ll form connections and social bonds,” she says. “You’ll learn how to use that place to meet your goals, and you will get attached.” If you can wait it out, the odds go up that you’ll fall at least a little bit in love with your new surroundings, even if that love is complicated.“People start off telling me all the things they hate about their place,” Scannell says. “And by the end of the interview, they’re starting to defend it. They say, ‘Well, but, it’s where I live. It’s still home.’”During a press conference at the White House Wednesday afternoon, CNN’s Jim Acosta got into a heated exchange with President Donald Trump. Acosta, a reporter already seen by Trump—and Trump’s supporters—as either merely an aggressive agent or as a literal secret agent, pressed Trump on how he characterized the so-called migrant caravan making its way through Central America as an “invasion.”“They’re hundreds of miles away, that’s not an invasion,” Acosta said.“Honestly, I think you should let me run the country. You can run CNN, and if you did it well, your ratings would be much higher” Trump replied.As Acosta began another question, Trump looked around the room to call on another journalist. “That’s enough,” he told Acosta, as a White House staffer approached to remove the microphone from Acosta’s hand. The staffer grabbed the mic, but Acosta refused to let go.What happened next is the cause of considerable debate. The controversy foreshadows a larger, looming debate—one not merely about the validity of video evidence, but about reality itself.A few hours after the terse exchange, Acosta tweeted that his White House media pass had been revoked. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders released a statement soon after, along with video of the exchange, claiming that Acosta had assaulted the staffer who had attempted to take the mic from his hand. “President Trump believes in a free press and expects and welcomes tough questions of him and his administration,” she wrote. “We will, however, never tolerate a reporter placing his hands on a young woman just trying to do her job as a White House intern.”Sanders later posted a video that zoomed in on the moment where Acosta refused to release his grip on the microphone. It showed the moment when his arm made contact with the staffer’s. “We will not tolerate the inappropriate behavior clearly documented in this video,” Sanders wrote in the attached tweet.That allegation was roundly denounced by other reporters in the room. By Thursday morning, it wasn’t just the interpretation of Acosta’s downward arm motion or contact with the intern that was the subject of frenzied online debate. It was, instead, whether the video Sanders posted had been doctored—sped up to appear as though Acosta had been more forceful.In a tweet that, at this writing, has been shared nearly 30,000 times and liked over 19,000 times, Rafael Shimunov claimed to show evidence that the video had been doctored. This claim that was quickly picked up by a variety of mainstream news outlets and echoed by others performing their own video analysis.“I’ve edited video for 15+ years,” Shimunov wrote in the tweet. “The White House doctored it.” Shimunov, who has professional experience in technology and media development, later clarified that the White House may not have actually altered the video. Instead, Sanders may have been sharing a clip that was manipulated elsewhere.He pointed a finger at Paul Joseph Watson, a vocal right-wing conspiracy theorist often described as “alt-right” (though he disputes that label). Watson refuted the charge.“The claim being made my [sic] some media outlets that I ‘sped up’ the Acosta video is a brazen lie,” he tweeted, attaching what he claimed is the “original editing,” wherein, he said, “no tracks are ‘sped up’… I just zoomed in.”It all leaves us in a familiar spot. In the days following Trump’s inauguration, a similar debate erupted over his erroneous claims about the size of the crowd that witnessed his swearing in. “This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration—period,” then-White House press secretary Sean Spicer aggressively told reporters after the event.It was, in fact, not at all the largest, a fact made all the more obvious by aerial photos released soon afterward. But the Trump White House stood by its claim, and in subsequent months, it was revealed that official photos of the inauguration were cropped by a government photographer “to make the crowd appear bigger following a personal intervention from the president.”But photos are one thing. Video is entirely another.Claims of doctored video have existed for decades—the Zapruder film remains controversial, for instance—but in the 21st century, amateur conspiracy sleuths, armed with increasingly effective editing software, have taken to analyzing video in the search for hidden clues that help bind together their alternative theories of global events. Since 9/11, video analysis has become a veritable cottage industry on YouTube, leading people down weirder and weirder paths and contributing to a splintering of accepted reality.In 2015, work done by computer scientists from Germany and California suggested video analysis was about to enter a new, and stranger, phase after they released the first clips of a program designed to alter video in real time. Their software, called Face2Face, captures the facial movements of someone in a studio and superimposes those expressions onto a video of someone else—a world leader, for instance.Since then, real-time video alteration has only grown more effective. Technologies that change other aspects of doctored videos — like audio — to make them more convincing have grown more powerful, too. And while there are still ways to spot a faked video (including how often the video subject blinks), knowing the truth will only become more difficult. The general public is usually either not aware of the technology or not sufficiently trained to recognize its effects when they occur.Worse, however, will be a question of sourcing.As the debate Thursday showed, determining ownership of a video found on the internet can often be frustratingly difficult, particularly if you’re trying to establish veracity against the instantaneously deadlines of a frenetic news cycle. It’s difficult to decide, in the mere moments of a video scrolling past on Twitter, whether one thing is more accurate than another. Without the ability to know where something came from, or how it traveled, figuring out how and when video may have been altered will quickly become a fool’s errand.Already, the debate over the Acosta video is a wormhole of conspiracy and conjecture. This might be okay if it were limited to a strange corner of YouTube. The Acosta video debate, however, was created and already mainlined into legitimacy by very prominent and established outlets, none more so than the White House itself, which is attempting — whether conscious or not if the video had been altered — to establish, just as it had following Trump’s inauguration, its own narrative of accepted events.Whether or not you believe the White House’s account of what transpired, or those who claim the video has been altered, one thing is certain: this is the new reality. Debates like this one, over the legitimacy of video evidence, are just beginning. Things will only get weirder from here.The World Health Organization (WHO) keeps tabs on every country’s HALE rating, which stands for “healthy life expectancy at birth.” HALE is a measure of how long the average citizen will live before disease or disability sets in. Worldwide, that average is about 63 years. But according to the WHO’s 2016 data, the residents of Japan know something the rest of us don’t; the average Japanese citizen will live without disability until age 75 — nearly six years longer than the average American.A mixture of diet, DNA, and lifestyle factors likely combine to explain this. But cold-weather exercise may also be part of the equation. “Growing up in Tokyo, it was thought that winter training keeps you away from the doctor, and the Japanese often exercise in winter,” says Shingo Kajimura, an associate professor and lab director at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF). “We can see now this makes a lot of sense.”Kajimura’s lab at UCSF focuses on metabolism and energy balance, and specifically on the function of the body’s fat cells. He says cold exposure during workouts may be beneficial for a number of reasons. For one thing, shivering burns a lot of calories. “Shivering is a very energy-demanding and tiring process,” he says. If your goal when exercising is to lose weight, working out in the cold may help a bit.Some of Kajimura’s research has also shown that spending time in cool or cold environments converts some of the body’s fat cells from unhealthy “white” fat to heat-producing, metabolically active “beige” fat. Kajimura says this conversion seems to help the body acclimatize to cold environments and increases resting energy expenditure — the amount of calories a person burns just sitting around. Research by Kajimura and others has shown that beige fat may limit blood sugar spikes and even combat metabolic disorders like diabetes. “For now, this is just a theory,” he says. “We need more investigation.”Exercise also appears to promote the development of beige fat. Kajimura says one hypothesis is that beige fat helps the body filter byproducts called metabolites that are released during exercise. Evidence suggests certain metabolites can contribute to fatigue and post-exercise soreness. So, for a lot of reasons, “Combining cold stimulus with exercise is a great idea,” he says. “I highly recommend exercising outside in the early morning or swimming in cold water.”Fat and fatigue benefits aside, cool-weather training may offer other perks. Maintaining proper internal temperature is one of the body’s main priorities during any activity, says Mike Jett, an instructor and lab director in exercise physiology at the University of Louisville in Kentucky. Exercise produces heat, which the body must labor to counteract if workout conditions are hot and humid. While that’s not a big deal in most circumstances, it can hamper athletic performance. “If heat accumulates, exercise intensity is reduced,” Jett says. Meanwhile, exercising in cool conditions (or even in cold ones, assuming you’re properly bundled) seems to be optimal. The body can devote all its resources to training and performance, rather than to temperature regulation, Jett says. However, “Working out in an intentionally hot room does not make sense from a performance standpoint,” he adds.There may even be some mental health benefits associated with cold-weather exercise. A small 2004 study from Finland found that winter swimming combatted tension and fatigue and improved overall well-being among 36 middle-aged adults. Cold-water exposure seems to activate the central nervous system and stimulate the circulation of hormones that may promote improved mood and energy, write the authors.There are, of course, risks involved with cold-weather training — especially if you’re training aggressively in frigid conditions. “Winter-sport athletes suffer from a high prevalence of airway dysfunction,” says Michael Kennedy, an associate professor of kinesiology, sport, and recreation at the University of Alberta in Canada.Coughing, wheezing, trouble breathing, and mucus buildup in your throat are all signs of cold-induced lung trauma, Kennedy says. While you want to avoid these as much as possible, he says a sensation of burning in your lungs or a taste of blood in your mouth are your biggest concerns. These are indications of damage “deep in the lung” and may have long-term effects on lung health and function, he says. Unhealthy lung inflammation, scarring of lung tissue, and a kind of cold-induced asthma are all possible from exercising in freezing temps without proper protection, he says.If you’re training in temps below 40 degrees, you should take extra precautions to protect your lungs. “Cover your mouth with a buff or some sort of quick-dry neck covering,” Kennedy says. Also, don’t go back indoors until your breathing has slowed to normal. “There is something called the burden of rewarming where, if your breathing is still elevated, it causes more water to be sucked out of the airway,” he says. That can promote lung stress.Cold-weather exposure may also be risky for people with heart disease. “When you’re exposed to cold, the body tries to prevent heat loss by shrinking the blood vessels,” Kajimura explains. This can elevate a person’s blood pressure and could be bad news for someone with hypertension or heart trouble, he says.But taken together, most of the research suggests that working out in cool or cold conditions is good for you. That doesn’t mean you should be running in shorts and a T-shirt when it’s 10 degrees out. If you’re properly geared up and taking care to shield your lungs from too much dry, icy air, there’s no reason to take your workouts indoors this winter.The Copyright in the Digital Single Market Directive had been under negotiation for years, and it was set to be the first update to E.U. copyright since the 2001 Copyright Directive. In the 17 intervening years, the copyright landscape had experienced massive shifts. The new Directive was seen as a must-pass piece of omnibus legislation comprising dozens of wonky and technical fixes to E.U. copyright rules. It was largely seen as uncontroversial — that is, until May 25.That was the day German MEP Axel Voss reinserted two long-abandoned, hugely controversial rules into the draft regulation:Both of these proposals were and are hugely controversial. The E.U.’s own technical experts had considered and discarded them after earlier efforts along these lines ended in disaster. Germany had tried “Link Taxes,” but Google simply boycotted any site demanding a link license, which gave newspapers no choice but to offer Google free licenses. Google. Google’s smaller competitors, including European sites, did not receive the same offer, meaning that a measure intended to curb Google’s dominance ended up increasing it instead.As for Article 13, critics noted significant problems with the voluntary copyright filter Google has already built: YouTube’s “ContentID” system. Content ID is a $60,000,000 copyright enforcement system that allows a few trusted rightsholders to add their copyrighted works to its database and either block any copies of those works, or force ads to appear on any videos the system believes contains their copyrighted works and funnel the ad revenue to these rightsholders’ accounts.ContentID is widely loathed. The rightsholders who use it complain that it doesn’t catch enough infringement. The creators whose videos are flagged by the system say its hair-trigger blocking behavior catches all manner of innocent works, including public domain NASA Mars lander footage, birdsong, background noise, silence, public domain musical compositions, and copyrighted works used in accordance with “Fair Use” and “Fair Dealing.” And YouTube’s army of users complain that ContentID blocks their favorite videos.Rather than fixing it, Article 13 would massively expand this deeply flawed system. Right now, ContentID only filters videos’ soundtracks. Article 13 would expand the filter to consider text, music, video, still photos, software code, game mods, 3D printing files, and anything else that might be copyrighted. ContentID currently allows only a small set of trusted rightsholders to add to its blacklist; Article 13 would let all 2,000,000,000+ internet users add to these blacklists. ContentID reserves the right to cancel a rightsholder’s access to its blacklists for abusing the system — falsely claiming copyright through carelessness or malice, for example — while Article 13 would require perpetual access for rightsholders, even anonymous parties claiming to be rightsholders. Article 13 would give them the power to block anything and everything from being posted to the Internet.These proposals were introduced at the end of May. By late June, more than a million Europeans had mobilized in opposition, forcing a vote in the European Parliament to allow debate before the Directive was passed. Alas, that vote went in Voss’s favor, and Articles 11 and 13 were included in the near-final version of the Directive. This was not so much a victory for Voss as it was a defeat for his opponents, who outnumbered him but who were divided by a series of slightly different proposals amending or striking out Articles 11 and 13.The new Directive is now in the “trilogues” — closed-door negotiations between the E.U.’s Parliament and individual national governments. Normally, these are a formality that takes place out of public view. However, the current trilogue is both more contested and more public than any in the E.U.’s history.The European Court of Justice has ruled that Europeans are entitled to know what happens in these trilogue negotiations, and German Pirate Party MEP Julia Reda has pledged to publish the negotiating documents (and she’s kept her word).What’s more, the trilogues coincide with political changes in Italy, and the Italian government has withdrawn its support for Articles 11 and 13. This brings the proportion of Europeans who oppose these articles past the critical threshold of 35%, a theoretical “blocking minority” that could scuttle the entire proposal (assuming they can avoid the trap the opposition fell into last time: agreeing that these rules aren’t appropriate but disagreeing on what to do about it).It’s not clear what will happen next. If these rules are meant to cut Big Tech down to size, they’re sure to disappoint. Google, Facebook, Twitter, Apple, and the other tech giants are the only companies big enough to be able to afford the hundreds of millions it will cost to follow the new rules. Small competitors in the E.U. just don’t have that kind of cash. Freed from any threat of competition from E.U. companies, dominant tech platforms will be left to grow unchecked. They will present even more of a threat to democratic discourse, privacy, and competition than they already do.And the problems these rules will cause won’t be confined to the E.U. If implemented today, the new rules would force online communications platforms to either block all users in the E.U. or censor the whole world’s internet.Even if you think the internet’s main function is to serve up entertainment and news, these rules are still a bad idea. But the internet is more than that: it’s our new global nervous system. These rules will affect education, civic and political engagement, family life, employment, and a thousand other fields of human endeavor. To pass them would be an act of gross regulatory malpractice in a parliament charged with the orderly governance of more than 508,000,000 people.We used to make fun of their house. We would ride our bikes by on a Friday night and stick up our middle fingers and laugh at them if they were out on their porch. Once, one of my friends stole the Skrewdriver flag from their front yard. They had security cameras all over the property; we knew they had plenty of guns inside. We were playing with fire, and we liked it. It was fun.The Vinlanders Social Club claimed to be a men’s club obsessed with Nordic traditions. Founded by Brien James, who was rumored to have been kicked out of the Outlaw Hammerskins for being too violent, and Eric Fairburn, who memorably had M-U-R-D-E-R tattooed across his neck, the Vinlanders were clearly a white power group, and no one thought otherwise.Sometime in the mid-2000s, the Vinlanders bought a house in Indianapolis just a few blocks from mine. They put up their flags like they were staking out their territory—sometimes they flew just a Confederate flag, sometimes other flags emblazoned with vague racist or nationalist iconolatry, sometimes the Nazi flag, sometimes the Skrewdriver flag.They would show up around the neighborhood every couple weeks, over by Lo-Bills or the Rent-a-Center, flashing their tattoos, lacing their boots in one way or another to show their various allegiances. Sometimes they started fights at shows, they handed out flyers covered with spelling mistakes and racial slurs, but mostly they were fighting with each other, calling each other “pussy.” The Vinlanders seemed to be endlessly drunk and forever posing for pictures, shirts off, showing off their tattoos in their backyard, over by their collapsing privacy fence, next to their overflowing trash bins. They were, honestly, ridiculous.I was at home rocking my newborn when three Vinlanders were drinking at an Irish pub a few miles away and attacked a black man. They beat him unconscious in the middle of the street and witnesses said threatened to kill all the bystanders who were scrambling for their phones to call the police. Over the next few years, their ideology spread and they became more violent. Eric Fairburn (after being released for beating the man downtown) was re-arrested for the murder of another man. Vinlander Adrian Apodaca was convicted in a murder-for-hire plot. Two others were just released this summer after a mistrial, accused of murdering a white woman because she was dating a black man. Brien James, who I sometimes saw shopping at Kmart on Southern Avenue, became a suspect in the near-death beating of a fellow white nationalist over disagreements on how their organizations should be run.My riding by and flipping them the bird was barely heroic—in fact, the reason I am writing this is precisely because it wasn’t. That was 2006 or so, before Trump. Even before Obama. I didn’t take these guys seriously; in the Midwest, everyone like me had at least one cousin like this. They were buffoons and lived on the fringes of our existence. I assumed they were a throwback to a hideous yesteryear. I lived in a very white and very straight world—I had no idea how harmful or dangerous these guys could be. After all, it wasn’t me they were after.I’m not alone. Most of us in white America didn’t see the rise of the alt-right and of undaunted, normalized racism coming. We also weren’t looking. But I lived right where these groups were trying to grow their base: my poor, working-class, and nearly all-white neighborhood with our crumbling houses, minimum-wage jobs, and busted chain link fences. It was a prime location for racist skinheads to recruit. I moved out of that neighborhood not because I didn’t love and feel deep fellowship with my non-Vinlander neighbors, but because I knew that being poor and having a white son in a neighborhood like that made him vulnerable to the rage. They were there to feed off our misfortunes.I’ve watched guys get recruited into these scenes over the years. The Midwest has this incredible way of making you feel small; it’s something about that huge open sky and the sprawling, endless, broken-down cities. Girls fall into crap marriages, and guys fall into whoever is going to tell them they have meaning that reaches beyond their Rust Belt lives.I have since moved back to the South, a place I cherish and an identity I claim. I love the South dearly. I love the way dusk falls on tobacco and dust falls on the road behind you when you’re driving home. The air feels lighter to me down here, but the history heavier. To be white, working-class, and Southern comes with a huge responsibility. We live within a referendum on race.Just 30 minutes north of my home in Greensboro, the reported imperial wizard of the Ku Klux Klan peddles hate literature and sells Klan memberships out of his rented house in Pelham (when he’s not in jail for DUI). And 30 minutes west of me, the state chairman of the League of the South makes podcasts about building a fascist movement in downtown Kernersville. Because of history, white folks in the South have a duty to refute this legacy. Sometimes it feels cumbersome, like an albatross; sometimes it feels like a great honor to hold this point of change in our hands.The rest of the country likes to—perhaps needs to—think of the South as a hugely backward place, in the style of Dukes of Hazzard or, worse, Deliverance. But the South I know is a community of queers and transfolk, immigrants and refugees. One yard up the street from me is planted entirely with Thai basil instead of grass and my neighbor gives me tomato seeds that come from his daddy’s sharecropping days. Here, we are mismatched and scrappy, imperfect and great.Much of the new South is like this. Small cities like Siler City, where white supremacist David Duke once rallied in an anti-immigrant fervor, have been re-energized by newcomers. It’s now alive with mariachi bands and brightly painted “tiendas” that saved the town from economic collapse. Mountain towns like Jefferson have an elderly couple who survived the Holocaust homesteading on its outskirts, and coastal towns like New Bern have Burmese grandmothers teaching Baptist moms to make ngapi.When I woke the other morning to see that a local tattoo artist had posted a hate group tattoo in his gallery of recent works, I knew exactly what that meant and who that threatened. I love the South, my neighborhood, and my family. I love our gardens and our mosque and our churches and the Honduran car repair place. I love my neighbor who leans over his children playfully in the yard and makes a tent out of his dreads for them to play in.This is my community and supremacists are not welcome here.I’m not going to name the artist who did the tattoo because I’m interested in discussing complicity in a way that goes beyond the confines and trench-digging, of my hometown. What matters most is how he responded to being told he had done a hate group’s tattoo: He told us he didn’t care. “It’s not my tattoo, so why do I care?” he wrote in several places before he fell to public pressure and apologized.The thing is, I don’t think we get to not care. Two days before he inked the “Proud Boy” tattoo, a white gunman tried to get into an African-American church in Kentucky and ended up shooting two people of color in a grocery store, one of them a black grandfather shopping with his grandson. The same day the tattoo was posted to social media and hashtagged with the dog whistle #ProudBoys, a man in Florida was being arrested for mailing bombs to leftist targets. While the tattoo artist was using a laughter emoji to respond to those questioning him, 11 people were murdered in their Pittsburgh synagogue by a white supremacist.No one is claiming that the tattoo artist committed these crimes. After all, his alibi is solid; he was busy tattooing hate symbols on someone’s forearm. No one believes these men who attacked and killed people had anything to do with each other directly (the extremist alt-right communities are notoriously fragmented and divided). Even the subjects of the tattoo—the Proud Boys—seem to position themselves above this general white supremacist fray. They claim to be somehow both the upstanding gentleman and the belligerent brawlers of the alt-right movement.Before Gavin McInnes founded the Proud Boys, he co-founded Vice Media and earned the title of “The Godfather of Hipsterdom.” McInnes is keenly aware of a toxic, binary ideology that has come to define modern American politics and that language is central to that environment. Relying heavily on double-dealing rhetoric, he wants Proud Boys to seep into the cracks that form through this tension.Liberal and progressive white people always relied heavily on the trope of bigots being ridge-runners and backwoods hillbillies, probably as a way to distance themselves and signal their “differences.” McInnes seems well aware of this and is actively trying to create an alternative supremacist that can’t be pegged, one that fits into an edgy popular culture.Proud Boys are vocal in their dislike of bumbling Klansmen and goose-stepping Nazis. They want to make clear that they are not your Snuffy Smith racists of yesteryear. Proud Boys present themselves as today’s hate group sophisticates, smoking cigars after office jobs and putting back a few craft beers with the boys. They boast that they are not an all-white organization nor segregationists, but instead simply believe in the supremacy of “white Western culture.” As a result, Proud Boys have a handful of men of color in their ranks who seem to have been drawn in by the rampant misogyny and the promise of joining white cultural supremacy, somehow ignoring the inherent racism in doing so.Their proclamations are rarely corroborated by the actions of rank-and-file Proud Boys who ceaselessly post racial slurs on white nationalist internet pages and regularly show up at white nationalist rallies serving as the muscle to protect the supremacists (Charlottesville “Unite the Right” organizer Jason Kessler was a Proud Boy).McInnes doesn’t really even seem to believe his own claims about the organization: He announced the founding of the group in Taki’s Magazine, a far-right publication that also regularly publishes Richard Spencer and Jared Taylor. In the same breath he disavows déclassé racists, he will claim, “I don’t want our culture diluted. We need to close the borders now and let everyone assimilate to a Western, white, English-speaking way of life.”If Brien James and the Vinlanders were bottom feeders, then McInnes and the Proud Boys are designed to feed off the darker angels of mainstream white America: the jaded suburban boys who felt they were promised more than the dull pencil-pushing lives they now lead. Proud Boys unapologetically describe themselves as “Western chauvinists,” and unapologetic is the point. They believe that apologizing for their superiority—their maleness and their white culture—shows weakness and that any movements that hope to shift power away from them are the enemy. While they are quick to point out that they hate both the Klan and Nazis, Proud Boys seem singularly focused on physically attacking antifascists, socialists, anarchists, and people of color.For years, McInnes had a reputation of being somewhere between a shock jock and a comedian, and he is purposefully evasive in his language. Railing against politically correct culture ad nauseum, he insists that Proud Boys are pro-women and it is feminists who are attacking women’s rights. Liberals are the racists for insisting on affirmative action that hurts black people who can’t achieve. “Western chauvinism” is progressively pro-gay because it is anti-Islamic backwardness. The act of calling out hate speech is hate speech. Raping a woman with short hair is actually her raping you because it’s like having sex with a boy. You’re a racist if you think saying the n-word is a slur. You’re a bitch if you think calling you a bitch is bitchy.There is nothing to apologize for, everything turns around, everything is gaslit, if you call it gaslighting you’re gaslighting, ceci n’est pas une pipe, ceci n’est pas fascism. McInnes packages his anti-PC rhetoric as something new and edgy, but of course it’s the most antiquated view out there: If you are offended, then maybe you need to learn how to take a joke.If you work through McInnes’ nearly two decades of progressively provocative and increasingly hate-filled writing and “humor,” or listen to the hours upon hours of his show and media interviews, it starts to matter less and less if Proud Boys are nationalists or racists or homophobes or what their actual politics are. Their purpose is plainly to obliterate opposition using age-old practices of minimizing, verbal abuse, and ultimately, physical assault. The space they are trying to create is violent and soulless and without standards or ethics or care. It the type of space preordained to be dominated by those who already have power.Beyond this duplicitous ideological wordplay, the one solid and consistent piece of the Proud Boys is their cardinal insistence on violence. McInnes, on his own show, drops his chicanery: “We will kill you. That’s the Proud Boys in a nutshell. We will kill you.” McInnes frequently encourages violence in his speaking and writing, especially against Muslims and immigrants, but honestly, against whomever: “Choke a motherfucker. Choke a bitch. Choke a tranny,” he says on the show.And Proud Boys do. Proud Boy fights against protesters have become commonplace at rallies around immigration or race since Trump’s election. Proud Boys were among the group arrested for attacking DeAndre Harris in Charlottesville, beating him with poles, metal pipes, and wooden slabs. Two weekends ago, brawls with Proud Boys broke out on opposite coasts in Portland and New York City. Video from the New York sidewalk outside the venue where McInnes was speaking shows Proud Boys repeatedly kicking a protester in the head while yelling, “Faggot. Faggot. Foreigner. Faggot.”McInnes, of course, won’t apologize. He says “faggot” isn’t hate speech; it’s what you call a man who cries. He says the man on the sidewalk was crying.In this America, when you don’t care, you are siding with the oppressor.The third step in becoming a Proud Boy, apparently, is to get the Proud Boy tattoo. The fourth step is to “engage in a major conflict for the cause.”The first step my hometown needs to take is to state clearly and without caveat that hate is not welcome here.Unfortunately, that is not what’s been done. The response of the Greensboro tattoo artist and many of his supporters mirrors the Proud Boy toxic brew of flippancy, dismissiveness, and intimidation. When a second shop discovered they had a self-professed Proud Boy working for them, they issued an apology, a mental health explanation for his behavior, and an assurance he had left the Proud Boys and that he is a really good guy (and then, they deleted the apology). Accusations that those who voiced concern about hate speech were just trying to cause problems and ruin careers, that they had hidden agendas or were being too sensitive, are the type of responses that evade the serious problems at hand by shifting the focus to those speaking out.Others defended the tattoo artists because they knew them and liked them or their art personally. Even when astigmatic, the instinct to protect your friends is right and true. But so is the instinct to protect your community.The problem is, in Trump’s America, whether you are branding your arm or defending your friend or silently standing by, you are always the soldier for someone’s cause. You can’t bow out. To actually be something of your own design—something relevant—you have to do something, not defect or deflect.From our tattoo shops to our neighborhoods, we can choose to make it clear that hate is not welcome here. We can be articulate and clear and create communities very much the opposite of McInnes’ nebulous and ethically adrift wasteland. If we make our spaces explicitly safe for people of color, women, queers, and immigrants, then they become inhospitable to hatred. And we will not have to issue uncomfortable apologies or do damage control. If we do it before they come, they will not buy a house a few blocks from us, they will not fly their flags, and they will not hurt the people we love.It is scary and uncomfortable and hard to be at odds with people in your community, to push into public debate, to embrace tension. I have done it imperfectly. But I have also made the mistake of not taking a hate group moving to my neighborhood seriously. At the time, I didn’t think about all the ways my silence, and that of my neighbors, made that possible. It is true that by now nearly all Vinlanders have gone to prison and are no longer a threat. Brien James somehow made it through and is no longer a Vinlander. In fact, he is now the Indiana representative for the Proud Boys.I have seen the mistakes of my own inaction, but being able to take responsibility is one of the privileges of my life. I am older now and come to know the divinity of community. I have listened past my own echo to hear the calls of a thousand forests’ birds. I live in a world where caring is brave. And I won’t apologize.“Wireless charging” features built into recent devices, like the iPhone XS, certainly make it sound like our present-day consumer tech is cordless. That’s not quite true, of course. A fancy charging pad still needs to be plugged into something — a wall outlet, say — meaning there’s a lot to trip over even after upgrading to the latest and greatest smartphones.And so, the inevitable question arises: When will we finally ditch the wires altogether? It really depends on who you ask, and how far into the future you’re thinking.The technology required for true wireless charging has been investigated as far back as 1890, first by inventor and scientist Nikola Tesla, who successfully transmitted power over long distances in demonstrations, but never completed his research. Tesla — the man, not the car company — actually invented many modern wireless electricity techniques almost 100 years ago, including the basis for capacitive charging today. A century later, we’re only just beginning to expand on these ideas.The wireless charging in current phones uses a technology called “inductive coupling,” which works over very short distances. This method isn’t new, and it’s barely “wireless”: old electric toothbrushes made by Oral-B used it in the 1990s, for example.If you have a phone that supports wireless charging today, you can hover it about a centimeter off its pad and maintain the current. But practically speaking, the device needs to rest on top of it. There’s a tight coil of copper in the charger, which generates an electromagnetic field. That field is received by another coil in the back of your phone, and then it’s converted back into electricity.Interest in this technology surged after Apple adopted wireless charging last year for the iPhone X and iPhone 8. This caused the smartphone industry to finally settle on a wireless charging standard called Qi, which guarantees compatibility with a wide range of chargers. Qi has been around for years in various forms, with many Android phones using the technology as far back as the Palm Pre in 2009.The addition of Qi to the iPhone led to a slew of chargers joining the market almost overnight. Apple, with its massive market share, sent a clear signal: Wireless charging is here to stay. Suddenly, Qi pads were everywhere — IKEA has even experimented with building the technology directly into its furniture.While Qi may not be so exciting, other wireless innovations show promise, and aren’t actually that far away.Resonant inductive coupling, which shares many similarities with inductive coupling, has one side of the copper coil “resonate” or vibrate, resulting in the ability to send power over much higher distances in much higher voltages (up to a theoretical 15 feet) via systems like Energous’s WattUp.Researchers are actively working on these ideas, with some demonstrations, at scale, already available. Disney in 2017 showed off a “living room” prototype that can power 10 devices wirelessly, including an iPhone, a lamp, and other objects. The idea, in the long term, is to hide a bunch of coils in your walls and forget wires entirely. But today, there’s a catch: Disney asks that you don’t stand within 46 centimeters of the giant copper pole in the middle of the room, as it exceeds federal guidelines relating to human energy exposure.Stephen R. Rizzone, president and CEO of Energous Corporation, told Medium that the company seeks a more convenient future, “where electronic devices are continually ‘topped off’ versus the current need to monitor electronic devices and actively seek out a charging source to recharge.”Another company, Cota, promises a charging experience similar to Wi-Fi: just install a transmitter and compatible devices will be powered when in range. The company is also working on a “forever battery” that will fit into old devices — gadgets that take AA batteries, for example — to make its wireless technology backwards compatible.Meanwhile, one of the largest barriers for these types of products is safety and regulation.On one hand, wireless charging actually reduces electric shock risk, because open wall outlets would no longer be necessary — a kid couldn’t put a fork through a wall and into the copper coils beyond. On the other hand, there’s a large unknown relating to the safety of magnetic fields and the human body. WiTricity, another startup in the space, claims the risks are no higher than with any other wireless technology (though, of course, it would say that).There’s also the issue of miniaturization. It’s one thing to put a big charging coil in your phone, but how about lightbulbs, sound bars, or even a laptop? As devices get thinner, will we still be able to fit this kind of technology inside? Looking further out, questions remain around whether or not it’s possible to beam enough electricity to power a TV, computer, and a bunch of phones at the same time.“The ability to walk from your kitchen through the family room and into your bedroom continually charging your smartphone with safe wireless charging power — this reality is closer than you think,” he said.He’s right that true wireless is on the horizon, and we can look to electric cars for hints today. WiTricity, which started with a focus on consumer applications but recently pivoted to wireless car charging, already has its products out in the world. Just drive your electric car over the company’s charging mat to fill the battery to full capacity overnight.By the end of next decade, it’s likely many of us will experience wireless power at home or at the office, as it becomes the new standard and changes the way we think about wires. The death of cables has been long and painful, but it’s genuinely on the horizon, for the first time.Author’s Note: Parts of President Trump’s speech have been rearranged and slightly edited for clarity and narrative. Considering 70 percent of his claims are false or misleading anyway, the liberty felt appropriate.About 30 minutes into the president’s speech, something inside me snapped. I’d been in Trumpworld for over eight hours, wholly submerged in the MAGAsphere, and I thought I’d acclimated. I thought I was immune to the headaches and nausea and screaming angry outbursts that are common when a liberal is exposed to Donald Trump and 12,000 of his rally-goers. No matter what I heard or saw from the president and his people, I could handle it, I thought—I could hold their world in my hand, curious, and observe it as closely as I wanted without putting myself in any danger. I was wrong.Sweating and cursing uncontrollably, head on a swivel, I pushed my way out of the overflow crowd gathered outside the Ford Center in downtown Evansville, Indiana, where the president was inside rallying the base into a fever pitch. A massive video screen—a Jumbotron, really—had been placed on top of a white trailer outside the arena and was broadcasting the feed to the 2,000 or so supporters who hadn’t been able to fit inside.The president’s words echoed from the P.A. system, and I picked up the pace, literally biting down on my tongue as I put as much distance between myself and a potential punch to the back of the head as possible. There was one place I knew I would be safe. There, on the other side of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., behind a wall of police officers: protesters. 500 of them, at least, holding signs, chanting, expressing all their pent-up frustration and anger while surrounded by a small army of like-minded liberals.“My people,” I thought, as I approached the curb where a group of Trump supporters were still engaging in a back-and-forth with the protesters. Right as I walked up, however, they launched into a particularly accusatory chant:“Go home, ra-cists!”“Go home, ra-cists!”“Go home, ra-cists!”They were screaming, faces scrunched in anger, spittle flying from their lips, and they were pointing at us—at me. I wanted to yell out, “No, wait! I’m on your team,” but of course, in that moment, I wasn’t. It didn’t matter that I’d been yelling in the streets since Occupy or that I canvassed for Bernie, voted for Hillary, and currently have a “Donnelly for Senate” sign planted in my yard. Nothing I had ever done or said or believed mattered—I was no longer an individual person.In that moment, the only thing that mattered was the side of the street I was standing on.I encountered my first Trump supporters a few miles outside of downtown Evansville, in the parking lot of a liquor store. I’d made the 175-mile journey down I-69 in less than three hours, the vast rural nothingness between Indianapolis and Evansville blurring together into one never-ending unincorporated township, and I had some time to kill before checking into the hotel. I swung into the Liquor Locker off the expressway to pick up a post-rally sixer, and that’s when I saw them. Two white guys in their early twenties, sporting neon ’80s-style sunglasses, flip-flops, and matching American flag shorts. As if that didn’t give them away, they’d written TRUMP 2020 #MAGA on the dirty back window of their silver SUV. Watching them lugging beer out of the store, giddy and laughing, I was reminded of being in college and loading up the van before going to Panama City for spring break 2003 #SUYT. Which got me thinking about all the bad decisions I made when I was that age, which led to the inevitable question: Could I have been one of those dudes? If I’d been born in the late ’90s, and not the early ’80s, could I have been a Trump bro?My initial reaction was to say, “Fuck no.” I might have made some bad decisions when I was that age, done some things I’m not proud of, brought shame to my parents, but in no way could I have ever been one of those guys, pregaming for a Donald Trump rally. Right? The more I thought on it, the less certain I became.Having grown up in a privileged, whitewashed suburban community outside Indianapolis, and having attended a nearby college where I hung out exclusively with other privileged white suburbanites, I had a wildly skewed, totally ignorant perception of the world outside my own existence at that age. And while I certainly can’t imagine, at any age, finding appeal in Trump’s anti-immigrant, racist rhetoric, I couldn’t help but wonder, for instance, if maybe I could’ve been convinced his war against political correctness was a worthy one—that my constitutional right to say something offensive in casual conversation with friends, which I did all the time back then, outweighed the personal hurt and discomfort it caused in others who might hear me. I really don’t know. Maybe. Probably.And could I have been led to believe, if all my frat brothers also believed it, that the white man was being unfairly targeted, discriminated against, even—that it was us who were the victims? I mean, I would fucking hope not. I would hope that my 21-year-old self, despite such a limited worldview, would have seen that for the utter bullshit it is. But honestly, I can’t say for certain.What I know for sure is that 21-year-old me, like 36-year-old me, would have been a Bernie supporter, but that the younger version, unlike the older, would not have voted for Hillary, not after the DNC rigged the primary in her favor. I also know that I would have found candidate Trump amusing and probably totally harmless—I did, after all, host a weekly Thursday evening get-together during my junior year of college, not to play beer pong or deal poker, but to watch The Apprentice at nine o’clock on NBC. It cracked us up, the over-the-topness of it all, and we hollered, “You’re fired!” at each other for the better part of a year.But would all that have been enough to earn my vote? Would his celebrity appeal and the male chauvinism and his decidedly non-political correctness have been enough to override the values my parents—both devoted Democrats—instilled in me? Well, in real life, back in 2000, my first ever vote was cast for Ralph Nader, who I thought was going to legalize marijuana. So, yeah, I’m pretty sure I would have sold my parents values out in a heartbeat, at that age.“And once you’re on the Trump train,” I thought, with a shiver, as I walked into the Liquor Locker, “you’re only a stop away from pregaming in your American flag shorts.”Originally, I had planned on staying in the DoubleTree hotel across the street from the Ford Center, but when I’d gone to book a room that morning, all 241 were sold out. They had been for three days, filled with Trumpworld support staff and rally personnel. Instead, I ended up at the only place downtown that had an available room, Le Merigot Hotel, which was connected to the Tropicana casino and billed as “Evansville’s first boutique hotel.”In order to get from my room to the street, I first had to cross the casino floor, 200 yards of red-carpeted temptation. I made it past dangling cigarettes, trays of sweating cocktails, and a silver-haired woman in a pink Playboy bunny shirt, but I couldn’t escape the rows and rows of penny slots. I grabbed at my wallet, opening it to reveal a solitary dollar bill. Machines were plink-plinking all around me, bells were ringing, people were winning. I could feel my heart beat a little faster as I sat down next to a lady huffing a cigarette and aggressively smacking her machine’s spin button. I pumped in my last dollar, an act that gave me a tingle of shame mixed with adrenaline. I felt like a junky about to spike a vein. I hit spin.This—right here on the floor of the Tropicana Evansville—this was the American dream. Forget the antiquated ideal of the 1950s, that nonsense about how anyone no matter who they were or where they came from (assuming they weren’t black or brown or female) could forge a better existence for themselves in this country through dedication, initiative, and a lifetime of hard work. Fuck that shit. Now it’s all about making the most amount of money in the shortest amount of time with the least amount of effort. The American dream of today is about going viral, becoming a YouTube influencer, a reality TV star, an Instagram endorser; it’s about buying a Powerball ticket, finding Boardwalk on a box of McDonald’s fries, meeting an angel investor on an elevator. The new American dream is pulling the lever for Donald Trump and making all your problems disappear.A minute later, after only three spins, my dream was dead, and I was slinging my backpack over my shoulder and walking out onto the street, forced to go to work.“Why are you doing this again?” My wife’s parting words bounced around my head as I made the short walk from the hotel to the Ford Center. It was a fair question. It’s not like anyone was paying me to be there. I hadn’t been contracted to write a story; George Soros hadn’t paid me to protest. Why in the hell was I attending a Donald Trump rally?What I told my wife, and it was the truth, was that I wanted to experience a Trump rally as one of his followers experiences it. I wanted to get lost in the spectacle and forget about the politics of it all. I wanted, somehow, to humanize Trump supporters, turn them back into individuals in my mind. I’d been having a hard time breathing deep and staying calm about the future of our country as we careened toward midterms. I was hoping that by exposing myself to Trumpworld, by allowing myself to get swept up in the MAGAness of it all, I would come away with some valued insight, an understanding of his supporters that would make me feel not so certain that we were on a collision course toward civil war.What I didn’t tell her was that when I’d received the text from Trump inviting me to the rally, my first thought had been: I have to go. Which is kind of a weird reaction, I must admit, from someone with so much disdain for the guy. But the truth is, I felt drawn to the rally, as if some greater gravitational force were pulling from my couch, out of my bubble, and into Trumpworld. I had to know what it was like.I rounded the corner at Sycamore and Sixth, and there it was. My first Donald Trump rally. And, holy shit, I had not expected the line to be so long. It snaked from the entrance of the Ford Center, coiling down Main Street, around the Ford Center, and disappearing off into the distance. There were so many people spread out over such a long distance it was impossible to get an accurate count: I guessed somewhere north of 5,000, and south of 63 million.A lot gets made of the “circus-like” atmosphere accompanying Trump rallies, but as I joined the tail end of the line, I was struck by how subdued the vibe was. Garth Brooks wasn’t blaring loudly from a handheld speaker, nobody was aggressively leading patriotic chants, a big-bellied shirtless man didn’t run up and down the street waving an American flag—people were just kind of standing around, listlessly, waiting for the line to start moving so they could all shuffle into an enclosed, air-conditioned space. It reminded me more of the end of the circus, when all the exhausted animals are herded onto the train bound for the next town. Then again, it was 90 degrees and hair-curlingly humid, and a lot of these people had been standing in line without shade for hours, prompting numerous heat-related ambulance runs. I don’t think I would have been much in the mood for a “Lock her up!” chant at that point either.The free tickets to the event had explicitly stated there was no dress code, and yet, I noticed that most everyone had come dressed uniformly anyway, depending on their generation. The older crowd, the grandparents, the baby boomers were the most overt and transparent in their devotion to the president, with many sporting 2020 campaign gear and other Trump-specific apparel.The generation behind them, generation X, were much less politically expressive, probably because many looked to have just come from work. There were plenty of construction boots, flannel shirts, and nursing scrubs, but also people wearing khakis and polos, blouses and dress skirts. To signify their support, they wore buttons pinned to their chest or carried small American flags on tiny sticks.Their kids, the grandchildren, the millennials, tended to shy away from anything Trump-specific, sticking exclusively to red-white-and-blue, stars-and-stripes, Fourth-of-July themed clothes. Almost as if they’d committed to the America First message, but still weren’t sure about the messenger.The one thing that cut across generational lines were the MAGA hats. One out of every three supporters, it seemed, was wearing one, and I got the impression that, for some, particularly the kids—who wore them flat-billed or backward—putting on that red MAGA hat was their favorite part of being a Trump supporter.There was only one person, out of all those thousands in line, whose attire appeared to represent an opposition viewpoint, and it sure as hell wasn’t me. I’d left my “Repeal and Go F$%K Yourself” shirt back home, instead going with a red IU basketball tee (Hoosier hoops being one of the last unifying symbols left in the state of Indiana).Sandwiched between an old white guy with a plug of chewing tobacco in his cheek and a young white man in a button-up dress shirt and wraparound black glasses, stood a solitary woman dressed in a simple ankle-length red dress, with an attached red cloak that appeared to be made out of a bedsheet. Her head, bowed in silence, was obscured by a white bonnet, and her hands were folded in front of her stomach.Karen B. Supak grew up the daughter of a historian in southern Mississippi. She used to get lessons on nonviolent resistance whenever the family crossed over the bridge in Selma on their way to visit her grandmother in Alabama. In high school, she was a punk rock kid who was refused service for the way she was dressed and eventually fled for California, to UC Berkeley, arriving on campus on the eve of the 30th anniversary of the free speech movement. She’s been peacefully protesting various civil-rights affronts since the Rodney King verdict back in ’91.Never like this though. Never embedded with the opposition, dressed as a symbol of their oppression, and committed to a vow of silence (she had a brief statement written out on her phone explaining who she was and her purpose, in case anyone asked). The change in approach was out of necessity. Karen, who lives in Evansville, has a 16-year-old son, a budding Trump supporter, who wanted to see the president speak.“He’s a 16-year-old white boy who lives in southwestern Indiana and comes from a family of privilege,” Karen would explain later, laughing at the irony of it all. “I can absolutely see the attraction if you were growing up in a privileged position in America these days, and seeing the president and going, ‘Oh, he can get away with acting however he wants to, and he looks a lot like me.’”Besides, she acknowledged, she was at least partly to blame. Back in 2016, in an attempt to expose the then-14-year-old to both sides, she’d taken him to a Bernie Sanders rally in Bloomington and then to the Trump rally in Evansville. It was his choice from there.Karen had no problem with her son cutting school to stand in line for the rally with a few of his friends, on one condition: She wanted to go with him. She wanted to hear what the president had to say to her teenage son. Which put her in a predicament. Under no circumstance was she willing to be mistaken as a Trump supporter, a hard thing to accomplish while standing in line for a Trump rally, as she discovered back in 2016 when she was heckled multiple times for not engaging in various chants. That was the other problem. Karen could be vocal in her opposition, especially when people were being rude or ugly. She’d only made it 20 minutes into Trump’s speech last time before her son had to pull her out of there. “You’re freaking out, Mom. Let’s go,” he told her, after she became agitated to the point of disturbing those around her by not-so-quietly muttering under her breath.The homemade handmaid’s costume, then, was the perfect solution for both problems. Not only did it allow her to very clearly distinguish herself from the Trump supporters, but the vow of silence—meant to replicate the subjugation of women in Trump’s patriarchy—gave her an excuse to keep her mouth shut.As I weaved in and out of the crowd, I noted a handful of reporters lurking across the street with their cameras or notepads, darting into the line to do a quick interview or shoot some b-roll. But the Right Side Broadcasting Network crew—a five-person outfit consisting of a cameraman, three young, red-clad female reporters, and a bearded guy in a seersucker suit—were right in the middle of it and had been the entire afternoon. The network rose to prominence in the summer of 2015 by live-streaming wall-to-wall coverage of Trump’s primary rallies, and in late October 2016, less than a month before the general election, the Trump campaign teamed up with RSBN to produce pre- and post-debate analysis shows that were then streamed on Trump’s Facebook page. The partnership prompted a New York Magazine headline to ask the following day: “Did Trump TV Premiere Last Night?”But then Donald Trump won. There was no longer a need for Trump TV, not with Fox News handling those duties. The original content RSBN produced flopped—hiring a white nationalist to host the flagship show wasn’t a great idea—and a staff of 14 had dwindled to four. But they were still at it, still covering rallies like the state media they aspired to be. And while their pregame coverage—six hours of live, unedited interviews with Trump supporters—was rough and amateurish, striking in its lack of depth or neutrality, watching it offers perhaps the truest portrait of who those people standing in line really were. And so I offer a sample:“We have so much in common with each person standing here,” said Randall, a dog breeder from southern Minnesota, pointing at his fellow “Front Row Joes,” a group of strangers who had met—and in some cases come together—over their love of attending Donald Trump rallies. Randall had been in line since the night before, and with his American flag cowboy hat and full-sized MAGA flag, he was the group’s de facto head cheerleader. His voice was hoarse as he spoke to the RSBN reporter. Informing her that his dog, Donald Trump, had knocked up one of his other dogs, Miss America, and that he was selling the puppies. He then explained why he was attending his 38th rally.“When President Trump comes out onto that stage, he inspires us,” Randall said, his voice cracking with emotion. “And hopefully we inspire him back, to keep working, keep fighting for us, because the man is tough, and he’s doing it, but he needs us to inspire him back. It’s a two-way street.” Randall pointed again at his fellow Front Row Joes. “It’s beautiful.”Casey, an unemployed laborer from southern Illinois, about two-and-a-half hours away, was attending his first ever Trump rally, but that hadn’t stopped the MAGA-hat-wearing newbie from joining Randall in waving the flag and leading cheers. “I’ve done it many times in my dreams,” he joked to the reporter, who followed up by asking what specifically had him so fired up.“Well, I’ll tell you what’s firing me up is the fact that you can understand this President. He’s not shooting the bs,” Casey declared, in a loud, booming voice. “That’s it, that’s the bottom line.”Ted, a farmer and mechanic from about two hours west of Evansville, had been in line since 11 a.m. He was also attending his first Trump rally, and while he was certainly a supporter of the president, it was his wife who was crossing something off her bucket list. He was a little hot, a little sticky in his blue jeans and plaid shirt, but otherwise enjoying the atmosphere.“Our president has a lot of really fantastic qualities,” stated the reporter. “Do you have a favorite?”Ted paused for a second, contemplating the question. “Well, I hope he’s for the farmers,” he said, a little carefully, adding that he wants more money for his grain. “We want to eat cheap in America,” he explained, “so you got to have support for the farmers. He’s looking out for us—I hope.” When asked what drew him to the president, Ted echoed the sentiments of Casey: “He shoots straight from the hip, you know. He’s not bs-ing around about it. Some people don’t like it, but you don’t play the fence. You’re either on one side or the other.”Lorenz, an Indiana native, wasn’t as interested in policy. Sporting an oversized black Q-Anon shirt, he shifted nervously from one foot to the other, thumbs tucked into his balled fists, as the male RSBN reporter asked what he was most interested in hearing the president talk about. Lorenz gave a quick, uncomfortable glance at the camera and shifted his weight. “Basically,” he said, his eyes darting again to the camera, “let’s stop the Deep State from doing what they’re doing through the lamestream media.”There were plenty of women in attendance too—a lot of sweet Southern ladies who loved the president unconditionally and who were thrilled at the opportunity to be in his presence. “I feel like I’m going to the beach,” said one shockingly pale woman. “I’m just so excited to see him.”One of the more unabashed and vocal female supporters was Carol from nearby Santa Claus, Indiana (it’s a real place: home of Holiday World and Jay Cutler). She was sitting in a folding chair up against the side of a building, a Diet Pepsi in the cup holder, when she was approached for an interview.Carol was tired and hot, she admitted, and regretted wearing black. She wanted to wear her red Trump shirt, but her and her husband George had been in court earlier that morning (“We own rental property, and it’s been a bit of a problem,” she confided on camera, before George cut her off). Her grandson went to University of Evansville, and he had a huge Trump banner hanging in his dorm room that everyone kept telling him to take down.“Wow, wow. Cool, cool,” the RSBN reporter said, jumping in. “So tell me, is this your first President Trump rally?”Carol nodded, emphatically. “This is my first time, and I’m having a ball. I just love it!” She laughed, a crackling smoker laugh, and grabbed the reporter by the wrist pulling the mic closer toward her mouth. “Even though I’m 76 years old, had open-heart surgery, got steel in my hip, I’m here to support Trump!” She held out a Trump hat that had been sitting on her lap and pointed at the name on the front like a recent NBA draft pick, allowing the reporter to wrestle back control of the mic.“And what are you hoping to hear him speak on?”“Oh, I don’t care,” Carol answered, without hesitation. “He’s good. He’s done more in two years than our past president could do in eight years.” She looked at the camera and beamed. “I’m drinking to that!”“Yes! Definitely!” the reporter exclaimed. “And what’s your favorite quality about President Trump?”“He’s honest,” Carol answered, again without hesitation. “He tells the truth. He’s not a politician. He’s not all about money—I need this and that. He’s more about the American people, and I really and truly think if we give Trump a chance,” her hand was clenched into a fist, and her voice was rising, “he WILL make America great again.”“Yes!”“I have no education,” Carol declared. “But we’re 100 percent for Mr. Trump!”When I saw the crowd spilling out onto the patio of Kevin’s Backyard Grill, right across from the arena—not to mention the “$4 Domestic Drafts” scrawled on the chalkboard propped up on the sidewalk—I knew where I could kill some time. Narrow and dark, even with full sun outside, the place featured a long wooden bar to one side, a stage for rock bands to the other, and in between was filled with Trump supporters conversing, laughing, guzzling 32-ounce domestic drafts and chowing down on baskets of loaded tots and boats of buffalo chicken dip. I slid onto a stool at the bar, ordering up some tater tots and a Coors Light from the sweating, smiling bartender, who was quick on the draw. I took a big gulp, then another, and did a half-swivel, surveying the scene.This all felt very familiar. The place was overflowing with Trump apparel and related paraphernalia, all of it in the home team’s colors of red, white, and blue. Even the servers and bartenders were dressed in matching dark-blue Trump/Pence 2020 T-shirts, although I wasn’t sure if they were true supporters or just looking for bigger tips. A group of college-age girls in American flag bandanas and jean shorts flirted with a couple of Trump bros in the corner. Next to me, an older gentleman in a “Don’t Tread on Me” hat argued with his Dale-Jr.-shirt-wearing buddy about those “SOB NFL players” who kneel during the national anthem.It was exactly like being at a bar in downtown Indy before a Colts or Pacers game. People were crammed against the back of my stool, shouting out orders while the bartender paced the rail, pointing and pouring, the noise level ramping up incrementally with each shot thrown back. It was a joyful, anticipatory atmosphere, and when my loaded tater tots came, I ordered another beer and settled in with a smile on my face.In that moment, dipping tots in ranch and sipping Coors, I have to admit that I felt one with the people in that bar. As long as I sat there watching Around the Horn on mute, bathing in the buzz of the place, I could forget what everyone was there for. For that hour, they ceased to be Trump supporters, and I was no longer a Trump hater. We were just a group of half-drunk, totally stuffed Americans headed to a big event. And I’d be lying if I said I didn’t share in their excitement. We were about to see the president of the United States speak in person. Did that not still mean anything? Had Trump so sullied the office that it no longer meant anything to be in its presence? I certainly didn’t feel that way. Right then I was thinking this would be something I’d tell my kids about someday.The bartender, a friendly, goateed guy in his thirties, caught the attention of the man crammed next to me. The guy was a regular and they started chatting. The bartender wasn’t supposed to be in until that afternoon, but his manager had called him in at 10. The regular laughed and nodded as a guy with bowling ball shoulders caught the bartender’s attention with a $100 bill. “Hey man, can you make change for this?”“Oh hell yeah,” the bartender said, wiping his hands on what was definitely a crisp new Trump shirt, reaching into his tip jar. “Been a good day!”When I was 12 years old, Reggie Miller pulled off one of the most miraculous comebacks in sports history. I remember exactly where I was when it happened: I’d been sitting in my parents Toyota Previa minivan, slowly strapping on my soccer shin guards, listening on the radio as the Pacers fell behind by six points with 18 seconds left to go against the New York Knicks, a playoff series that had been dubbed “Hicks versus Knicks” by the New York media.When the Knicks pushed the lead to six, I’d slid open the Previa’s door so forcefully it shook the window glass and started trudging toward the soccer field, head down and kicking grass. I didn’t get far. “Oh my God! Aaahhh!” I heard my mom scream as I turned around in a panic. My dad was hanging out the driver’s side window, waving me to come back: “He did it! He did it! He did it!”Eight points in nine seconds. That’s what Reggie Miller had done—and even 23 years later, it stands as one of the single greatest comebacks in the history of professional basketball. From that day until he retired a decade later, if there was time on the clock and #31 was on the court, the Pacers still had a chance. No subsequent failure to execute—and Miller had plenty of big misses—could ever shake that feeling.I was reminded of all this in the moments after leaving the Backyard Grill. I’d exited at the corner of Main and Sixth Street, diagonal from the entrance to the Ford Center, stepping out into the sunlight with a hand shielding my eyes. The doors to the venue were finally open, and the line was moving, glacially, as Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believing” blared from the speakers. The side streets were packed with people milling about, shopping the row of tables and tents selling unofficial merch, and the smell of hot dogs hung in the air. I made my way over toward the huge videoboard that had been set up outside the arena, where on-screen a highlight reel of the president’s shocking election-night upset played on a loop, eliciting a cheer from those in line every time the Fox News desk called Pennsylvania for Donald J. Trump.That’s when it hit me: Donald Trump was Reggie Miller. I tried to push the thought away, but the comparison was sitting there, too ripe to ignore. Like Miller, Donald Trump was from the coast, but not necessarily of the coast, and both men were mocked back home before being embraced by working-class underdogs in the Midwest. Both were loud and brash, hated by their opponents, and each came to embody the middle of the country’s resentment of all things big city and bright lights. They both also enjoyed, to great effect, using the media to lash out and provoke the very coastal establishment that had rejected them.And, most importantly, both pulled off miracles so unbelievable that it earned them a lifetime’s worth of belief in their powers.The night that the Fox News hosts announced the results of Pennsylvania, guaranteeing Trump one of the most improbable victories in the history of politics — it was the equivalent of Miller’s eight points in nine seconds in Madison Square Garden. It was confirmation that not everything was rigged against the average, mid-market Midwest American, that David’s stone could still fell the giant if there was enough momentum behind it.Journey had given way to Neil Young’s “Rockin’ in the Free World,” as I pushed through the crowd and out the other side, in search of the thousands of protesters the local paper had promised. Apparently there were two main groups gathering pre-rally, each getting hyped separately before marching toward the Ford Center and joining together as one unified protest. How perfectly symbolic, I thought, heading north of downtown in search of Memorial Baptist Church, searching for the group led by activists from the Sierra Club, Indivisible, Beyond Coal, Our Revolution, and the Tri-State LBGTQ Alliance.Maybe it was the beers or just my unfamiliarity with the city, but I couldn’t find Memorial Baptist Church for the life of me. I was nearly a mile north of downtown before doubling back toward Locust and Ninth, where the other group, led by the Vanderburgh County Democratic Party, was meeting in a grassy area by a parking lot. There were maybe 75 people milling around in front of the parking lot, signs at their side, talking quietly. They were scattered and broken into mini groups of three or four, and as I made my way with ease through the crowd, I picked up bits and pieces of conversations, most of which centered around one prominent political figure: Joe Donnelly. And it wasn’t in a “we support Joe” sort of way. More like, as a kindly-looking woman with short silver hair put it: “What the hell is Donnelly doing?”You have to feel for Joe Donnelly. After replacing Richard Lugar, a six-term senator and lodestar of moderate Republicanism, Donnelly spent his first four years in office crafting an image as a moderate, bipartisan compromiser, just like that of his predecessor. In fact, according to the Bipartisan Index, a lifetime ranking of senators conducted by none other than The Lugar Center, Joe Donnelly ranked as the second most bipartisan senator since 1993 (Lugar ranked #26, by the way). To put his bipartisanship in perspective, he voted with President Trump 62 percent of the time in 2017—more support than he gave Obama during his last year in office. Put another way, if Joe Donnelly were any more bipartisan, he’d be Todd Young.And then along came Trump, smashing the middle ground like a one-legged drunk in a China shop, leaving Donnelly to flail his arms and kick his feet like Wile E. Coyote run off a cliff. One minute he’s voting to fund the wall and roll back Dodd-Frank and ban abortions after 20 weeks; the next, he’s saving health care and going against the tax bill and putting sanctions on Russia. The end result is that for the past two years, Donnelly has done nothing but piss people off. Those on the right can’t understand why he would ever vote against the president, while those on the left don’t get why he ever wouldn’t. Both sides hold the same thing against him.The vibe I got from the protesters was that Trump supporters were a lost cause. Now that the president was openly supporting Donnelly’s opponent Mike Braun in the midterm, there was no hope in winning their vote. What Joe needed to be doing, as the Democrat sitting atop the state ticket, was turn out the base. Not reach across the aisle for a hand that wasn’t even extended. It was an angle I agreed with, prior to coming here. But standing in that mostly open field listening to a few scattered protesters arguing among themselves, and then comparing that to the line I’d seen winding through downtown, I was starting to see things a little differently.I mean, what the hell were we going to do about it? Vote for Mike Braun?I’d stopped by the hotel to drop off my backpack and was now speed-walking down Main Street with my notebook and a pen tucked behind my ear, ready to finally enter the belly of the beast. It was still warm and humid out, but the sun was beginning to fade over the horizon, filling the sky with a burning red hue that was, depending on your perspective, either beautiful or ominous.Just as I passed by Angelo’s, a quaint-looking Italian bistro with a “Make Angelo’s Great Again” sidewalk sign, two shirtless boys, maybe 10, 11 years old, came riding up the sidewalk on their bikes. The front one, the bigger of the two, his dirty blonde hair shaped into the beginnings of a mullet and blowing behind him, fixed me with a menacing squinty-eyed tough-guy look.“Make America great again!” he spat, breezing past me on the shared sidewalk.His friend, shorter, scrawny, buzz-headed, was trailing 10 yards behind and breathing heavily. “MAGA!” he huffed, standing up to pick up the pace as he passed.I did a double take, not entirely sure what the hell just happened. It sorta felt like I’d been threatened. Like the neighborhood bully and his sidekick had just warned me to watch my back in these parts. I laughed, a little uneasily. Were the kids all right?Standing in line in front of the Ford Center, watching Lara Trump, wife of Eric, inform us from the videoboard that “President Trump supports the First Amendment as much as he does the Second” but that “some people have taken advantage of that,” word began to ripple through the crowd that the cops were shutting the doors. Nobody else was getting in. I looked around, and for the first time all day, people weren’t smiling.A guy in his early thirties wearing a blue polo shirt wandered over to where I was standing in line, a couple hundred yards from the now-closed entrance. “Hey did you guys have tickets?!” he asked, a bit wild-eyed, to nobody in particular. When it was confirmed that everyone in the general vicinity did, he became agitated. “Me too!” he exclaimed, throwing his arms out wide. “What was the freakin’ point?!” The man had left work early and driven three hours from St. Louis to be there, he told us, speeding the whole way. Others voiced similar stories, joining what was becoming a chorus of complaint.“How the fuck are they printing more tickets than they have seats?”“If this were Luke Bryan at 80 bucks a pop, you can bet they’d find some room!”“Let’s charge the gates!” (said to a big laugh)Elton John’s “Candle in the Wind” began playing over the PA system, and Lara Trump was replaced by another highlight reel of Trump’s election-night miracle. A deeply tanned, heavily-muscled man with a lumberjack beard who’d been listening to the growing discord tried to explain the issue away. He heard some people had made copies of the tickets and then passed them out to friends. That’s why there were thousands now left standing outside. It wasn’t Trump’s fault.I desperately wanted to argue, to say of course the Trump campaign had given out more free tickets than they had room for. Why wouldn’t they? They had no clue how many people would actually show up. It’s one thing to download a free ticket, quite another to actually show up. But also: The Trump campaign wanted an overflow crowd. That’s why they’d set up the videoboard on top of the trailer. They wanted thousands of people left outside watching on the Jumbotron, so that Trump could then reference the thousands of people outside watching on the Jumbotron. It wasn’t nefarious. It was just Trump, the businessman and marketer, doing what he does best. And still they made excuses.“Man,” said blue polo shirt, fully accepting Lumberjack’s explanation. “That’s bullshit.” Lumberjack nodded, and they both turned to look up at the Jumbotron.Off in the distance came the faint echo of an angry chant, and for the briefest of seconds, I thought it was Trump supporters rising up in protest, demanding to be let in. “Let us in! Let us in!” I swear that’s what I heard, as I began moving in that direction. But as I got closer and the scene unfolded, I realized I’d been mistaken.It was the protesters. Hundreds of them. I’d written them off after the underwhelming showing at the Democratic party pre-rally, but apparently the group led by the activists had turned out. They were piled four and five deep the length of a city block down Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., almost all of them with signs. It was heartening to see, and I smiled as I took in the volume and variety of signage. There were short signs (“TRE45ON”) and long signs (“SuperCallousFragileRacistSexistNaziPOTUS”). There were sincere signs (“God Bless Our Free Press”) and familiar signs (“Black Lives Matter”). There were signs that suggested a little oversight (“Someone Take Away His Phone!”) and others that demanded coarser action (“Eat My Ass, Trump!”). There was even a sign about all the signs (“Not Usually a Sign Guy, But Geez.”)On the other side of the street, the side I was on, a growing crowd of Trump supporters had begun to gather. The protesters were chanting angrily and throwing expletive-laced invectives across the street, while the Trump supporters mostly just looked on in bemusement and laughed. To them, the whole thing was one big LOL. Here were hundreds of truly pissed-off liberals, forehead veins throbbing, calling them awful names from just 50 yards away, and the Trump supporters were laughing like they’d all just eaten a pot cookie and gone to the state fair.In the middle of it all, forming a human barricade, were police officers from varying patrols: beat cops, bike cops, even mounted police, helmeted officers sitting high on their horses, hands on their batons. One serious-looking sniper, muscles bursting out of his flak jacket, rifle at the ready—it was filled with bean-bag bullets, I’m pretty sure—stood on the curb in front of the Trump supporters, his sunglass-covered eyes scanning the opposite side of the street.Right in front of him, almost as if he were guarding it, protecting it from those on the left, was a splatter of horse shit.“You’re a fucking tool, bro!” One exchange toward the far end of the line caught my attention, and I moved closer to watch.On the left side was a trio of older black guys, probably in their early forties. They were on the curb and yelling at a Trump supporter, also a black guy, who was wearing a red Trump-Pence 2020 shirt and laughing. In his hand he held a small sign reading: “Blacks for Trump.”“And your boy, he’s the worst of the worst,” called out the ringleader of the protesters, sporting a white T-shirt with the message “F$#K RACIST TRUMP” handwritten on the front. A small smile jumped at the corners of his mouth, and he shot a glance at the line of officers. “I hope he leaves here and gets hit by a fucking car!”I wasn’t sure exactly who he was referring to, but those sounded like fighting words to me. The Blacks for Trump supporter, however, just laughed and shook his head. “You know what he go home to?”“What?” the ringleader fired back, mean-mugging.The man paused for a second, suddenly unsure of himself. “He, uh,” the crowd was starting to close in, people had their phones out. “He go home to a two-million-dollar mansion—” The three protesters were howling before he could get the sentence out, smacking each other in the chest, clowning. The Blacks for Trump guy raised his voice to be heard. “And I go home to a three-million-dollar mansion! Got two or three Rolls Royces!”The conversation devolved into unintelligible crosstalk at that point, and I was only able to make out the occasional insult through all the shouting:At that point, the Blacks for Trump guy’s friend showed up, and holy shit, I recognized him. I’d seen him on TV at another rally, standing right behind the president and cheering wildly while wearing a white T-shirt that read… I moved around to the side to get a better angle, and yep, it was him. Same gold chain, same sunglasses perched on top of the same permed hair. And most definitely the same T-shirt proclaiming, in bold, black letters, “Trump & Republicans Are Not Racist.”Now it all made sense.Burnout in the workplace isn’t uncommon, and it’s not pleasant, either. Data from the American Institute of Stress suggests that 80 percent of U.S. workers feel stressed out about their jobs, with 40 percent in roles that are “very” or “extremely” stressful.People in high-intensity jobs, like those in the medical profession or law enforcement, are particularly prone to burnout, but they’re by no means the only ones who suffer from it. Across the professional spectrum, burnout can be caused by any number of factors: Long hours, conflicts with management, and overall job frustration are just some of the things that can leave any worker feeling like they’re on the brink of mental, emotional, or physical collapse.The easiest cure is also the most obvious: Take some time off. Going on a trip or setting aside a few days at home to refresh can temporarily reset your stress clock. But not everyone has the vacation days or financial means to make an escape, so you may need an alternative way to fight off the job scaries. Here are some ways to get yourself back on track when you can’t get away.The first step toward treating burnout is recognizing it for what it is. “There are three big signs of burnout,” says psychologist Ellen Hendriksen, author of How to Be Yourself: Quiet Your Inner Critic and Rise Above Social Anxiety. The first, emotional exhaustion, “is exactly what it sounds like: a sense of being drained and unmotivated and tired, both physically and psychologically. It gives you the sense of moving through mud.”Another symptom is something called depersonalization, or “a substitution of characteristics for an actual person,” Hendriksen says — for example, “nurses might start to refer to a patient as ‘the heart attack in Room Eight,’ or a psychologist might refer to a client as ‘that OCD guy.’” You stop seeing the people you work with as people and instead start to see them as burdens, which builds up a mounting sense of resentment.The last big sign of burnout, Hendriksen says, is losing the ability to focus. “[It’s] basically taking more time and energy to accomplish less,” she says. “If you’re noticing, ‘I’m working hard and really long hours but accomplishing a lot less than I used to,’ that’s a red flag.”Burnout, in many ways, feels similar to depression. But while the two share many traits, burnout tends to be more situational than depression’s all-encompassing state of gray. “If people feel like an anvil has landed on them at work but perk up at their soccer league or cooking class, then it is likely not depression,” Hendriksen says. “Depression colors every area of life, but burnout can be more job-specific. It bleeds over, but there is some contrast.”It sounds like an old cliché, but sleep, exercise, and proper nutrition can do wonders for your mood and stress levels.Unfortunately, burnout can cause you to swap out good habits for bad ones, which creates a vicious cycle. “Take an inventory of how much you might be drinking, or how much sleep you’re getting, or how much screen time you’re consuming, to try to make over any bad habits that have crept in because you’re feeling sluggish or unmotivated,” Hendriksen says. “It’s really easy to let job burnout and resentment turn into a ‘what the hell’ attitude when it comes to our personal habits.” It can be tempting to mitigate unhappiness at work with lots of boozy happy hours and midday candy breaks, but the physical benefits of eating and sleeping well outweigh the temporary burst you’ll get from short-term fixes.You should also try to cut down on screen time once you clock out, especially if you have a job that already requires a lot of screen time. The blue light emanating from your phone and computer can mess with your circadian rhythms, making it harder for you to fall asleep and leaving you feeling slightly jet-lagged. Screens can also cause eye strain, leading to headaches and increased feelings of fatigue. Consider swapping out your Netflix binges for time with friends, long walks, or other activities that keep you away from electronics for at least a few hours.Robert Taibbi, a licensed clinical social worker and the author of several books on mental health, says it’s important to suss out how your specific workplace habits might be affecting your happiness. “It’s about looking at your personality,” Taibbi says. “What does your job require? How much into control are you? Do you have a hard time delegating and getting help on things? Do you get obsessed because you tend to be perfectionistic?” If you tend to procrastinate, for instance, endlessly battling last-minute deadlines might be the root of your burnout. If you feel like you’ve taken on too much but don’t want to assign tasks to others, maybe that’s what’s causing your issues.Alter these habits accordingly, either on your own or with the help of a manager. For instance, at a former blogging job, I started to have trouble finishing posts before the end of the day. Though I was super productive in the morning, I’d lose focus after lunch and struggle to make up for lost time through the afternoon. My boss and I restructured my schedule so I’d log on from home a little earlier in the morning, file a couple posts, and then come in. That schedule allowed me to take advantage of my most productive hours and also broke up my day, so that by the time I came into the office, I wasn’t restless from feeling like I’d been sitting at my desk for too long.Hendriksen says it’s helpful to envision your perfect work environment, then take small, realistic steps to bring your reality closer to what you’re picturing. “People can fundamentally love their job and know they’re in the right field, but they might be overworked,” she says. “Perhaps you can try to justify an assistant. If you’re dealing with a long commute, perhaps you can work from home a few days a week. Work strategically to align your ideal workplace environment and duties with the actual one.”If work has started to drain your energy, Hendriksen says it’s important to identify activities that replenish it and focus on those activities in your off-hours. Socializing with friends is generally considered a good antidote to the drudgery of a working day, but if that doesn’t lift you up, perhaps you’d prefer to spend your off-hours reading a good book, or cooking, or taking a Spanish class.Just make sure it’s something you want to do and not something you think you should do. “It’s important to make sure it’s something you honestly, really believe would be fun,” Hendriksen says. “We so often do things that are good for us, but then it becomes another chore, even if ostensibly it would be fun.”And remember to separate you from your work life. Taibbi says people who suffer from burnout tend to tie their identities more strongly to their jobs. “Ideally, you want to be diversified. You want to have multiple baskets to pull from,” Taibbi says. “If all your self-esteem and identity go into one job, your risk of burnout goes up, because you’re anxious the basket is going to get turned over.”Sometimes, no matter how hard you try to make the best of job burnout, you really just need time off.“If you’re at the point where you are sacrificing your health for work, that is a sign. That never gets better on its own,” Hendriksen says. “That’s your body telling you that this is not a good match.” If you can’t get out of bed, for instance, or your blood pressure is spiking, or you’re suffering from regular stress headaches or not eating, it’s important to step away. Talk to your supervisor about going on leave or borrowing vacation days from next year, or promise to make up the time you’ll be out. Just make it clear how much you need this break, and then do what you can to get it.Taibbi suggests that even taking one day off might help get you back on track. “That’s when people say, ‘I’m going to take a mental health day,’” he said. “It’s when [your] productivity starts to fall apart because you just showed up at work and can’t plow through it.” You and your employer will both be better off if you can get back the energy you need to actually do your job.For five decades, conservatives have claimed the moral high ground in judicial matters, claiming that they are simply interpreting the Constitution as it was written by our Founding Fathers — what they call an originalist approach. But conservative justices’ decisions are no less shaped by their worldview than progressives’.In 2008, for instance, for the first time in U.S. history, the five conservative justices on the Roberts court declared a local gun control ordinance to be unconstitutional — a violation of the Second Amendment. In 2010, these same justices found that corporations have the right to spend unlimited amounts of money in election campaigns. In 2013, they invalidated a federal civil rights law in the area of race — a key provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 — for the first time since the 19th century.By any measure, all these cases were based on the ideology and values of the conservative Republican justices, not the text or the original meaning of the Constitution. It is laughable to say that the framers of the First Amendment intended that corporations should be able to spend unrestricted sums from their campaign treasuries to get candidates elected or defeated. Those who wrote the First Amendment did not envision campaign spending as it exists today, let alone modern corporations. Additionally, each decision-overruled precedent invalidated a law that was enacted with overwhelming support, broadly decided a matter when a narrow ruling was possible, and did so to advance conservative political values.It’s time for progressives to fight back by offering an alternative vision of constitutional interpretation and constitutional law based on fulfilling the Constitution’s promise of liberty and justice for all. Progressives need to expose how conservatives are using the Constitution to advance their own agenda, which favors business over consumers and employees and government power over individual rights.The first step must be to refute the conservatives’ legal notion of “originalism,” whereby all constitutional issues, including such controversial questions as the death penalty or affirmative action, can be resolved based solely on the original text of the Constitution and its meaning at the time it was written. Conservatives maintain that this allows justices to decide cases without imposing their own values. That is nonsense. There is no such thing as “value-neutral judging.” It is a myth that conservatives have advanced for decades and continue to espouse for their own purposes.But it is not enough to reveal the conservatives’ false promise of judicial neutrality. Progressives must offer their own vision for what the Constitution should be understood to mean. The document should be interpreted to fulfill its central values. Therefore, it is essential to begin by identifying the core underlying values that the Constitution is meant to achieve. The place to start is at the very beginning, with the Preamble, which articulates the purposes for the document. The Preamble states: “We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.”Unfortunately, the Preamble has been largely ignored in Supreme Court decisions and scholarly writings. It has been treated as a mere rhetorical flourish to the Constitution. But, on the contrary, it is much more: It provides a lens through which the Constitution can be examined, articulating the basic values of the document that follows.I, of course, am not making an argument that I know the intent of the framers of the Constitution in these areas. Their intent cannot be known and should not limit contemporary constitutional law. The Constitution must be adapted to the problems of each generation; we are not living in the world of 1787 and should not pretend that the choices for that time can guide ours today. Chief Justice John Marshall expressed this realization almost 200 years ago when he said that “we must never forget that it is a Constitution we are expounding,” a Constitution “meant to be adapted and endure for ages to come.”Given Donald Trump’s election, it is not likely that my vision will be adopted in the immediate future. But that’s not the point. Conservatives, in their think tanks and Federalist Society cliques, have spent years articulating and elaborating a conservative vision of constitutional law and the role of the Supreme Court. They did this even during years when conservatives were out of power. Liberals may have thought it futile to create a different and progressive vision with conservative justices in the majority on the Supreme Court for the past 45 years. Perhaps, too, progressives have been wedded for too long to the Warren court’s vision and not thought enough beyond it. The Warren court ended almost a half-century ago, in 1969, and it made huge strides in ending segregation and expanding the rights of criminal defendants. But now is the time to provide and defend and fight for an alternative, grander, and more inclusive interpretation of the Constitution.The Preamble to the Constitution clearly states the values that the document is meant to achieve: ensuring democratic governance, providing effective government, establishing justice, and securing liberty. Added to these values should be furthering equality, not something that was mentioned in the Preamble to a Constitution which protected the institution of slavery.There is much that progressives can fight for to fulfill each of these values. We need to create an election system that is far more democratic, including ending partisan gerrymandering, lessening the likelihood that the Electoral College will choose presidents who lose the popular vote, and combating disenfranchisement of minority voters.Establishing justice requires finally eliminating the death penalty, which is inflicted in an arbitrary and racially discriminatory manner. There must be a better system of ensuring that those who are accused of crimes have competent counsel.Securing liberty requires that there must greater constitutional protection of privacy. This includes more safeguards against government intrusions, better protection against information gathering by the government, and continued protection of basic aspects of autonomy, including reproductive autonomy.Looking at the Constitution in a progressive way would produce a very different approach, one that would do much more to provide liberty and justice for all. In most areas, it would not take more than the shift of a single justice to create decisions pointing constitutional law in a fairer direction that does much more to realize the promise of the Preamble and the Constitution. Maybe the unexpected will happen and there will be a progressive majority on the Supreme Court sooner than I or anyone expects. If not, some changes can be accomplished through legislative action at the federal or state levels; much can be done under state constitutional law when the Supreme Court and federal courts do not act.It is so tempting to look at the composition of the Supreme Court as a historic inevitability. But in reality, it is a product of coincidences between the timing of vacancies and who is in the White House. If Hubert Humphrey rather than Richard Nixon won in 1968—and it was a very close election—then a Democratic president would have picked four new justices between 1969 and 1971, and that would have continued a liberal majority on the court for decades more. If Al Gore or John Kerry had been president in 2005, when William Rehnquist and Sandra Day O’Connor left the Supreme Court, there would be five justices appointed by Democratic presidents on the court today, notwithstanding the election of Donald Trump, the appointment of Neil Gorsuch, and the resignation of Anthony Kennedy. If Hillary Clinton had been elected president — and she did win the popular vote by 3 million votes — and had replaced Antonin Scalia, the next years and perhaps decades of constitutional law would be vastly different.So I think it is important to step away from the current composition of the Supreme Court and focus instead on what should be the meaning of the Constitution itself. How should progressives interpret this majestic but flawed document? The Constitution, and how it is interpreted, affects all of us, often in the most intimate and important aspects of our lives. It should be interpreted to create a nation where there truly is liberty and justice for all.The Center for American Politics and Design built an archive of every 2018 campaign logo, and its banality is disorienting. In a moment of such division and upheaval, how can the visual landscape remain so uniform?You might notice that there are a few differences in the details. Democrats use slightly more purple, with a near monopoly from the women in the party. Democrats use a bit more blue, Republicans use a bit more red. Etc.When you take a step back, the difference is a matter of degree. Some individual logos may obviously belong to one party or the other — especially if they use purple or green — but collectively, it’s a wash. After all, both sides are equally into serifs, and lord knows how much typography matters.You might wonder if this relates to voter apathy. I do. Many people opt out of the political process because they don’t see a difference between the two major parties. Based on their visual identities, that’s an understandable reaction.By contrast, we’re visually tuned into many other parts of life. We’re surrounded by logos and other symbols that help us define our preferences every time we shop. Some logos stand for who we are and who we want to be, even if the product itself is only a pair of shoes or a phone.Many civic institutions also use visual patterns to great effect. New Mexico has exquisite license plates, for example. The national Great Seal is iconic, even if it’s not quite in step with the latest design trends. (Though you never know, flat design comes in cycles.)It’s also ubiquitous in political movements around the world — old communist propaganda is still recognizable generations later, and the color yellow recently took center stage in Catalonia. A few recent American presidential campaigns have leaned on design as well. Obama’s visual language captured his message and encouraged millions of young to people care about politics for the first time (McCain’s didn’t even try).Clinton’s campaign worked with a highly esteemed designer to develop a winsome, witty, and vaguely corporate logo. Trump used Times New Roman and ALL CAPS to convey his point of view and attitude.Apparently you don’t need access to expensive professionals or publicity consultants to build a compelling visual language. All of this makes it even more striking that, as a whole, our political parties are not visually distinct.Is it good or bad that the parties look so alike? I can’t say. People look for visual clues to make sense of the world, and these logos don’t offer much help. On the other hand, politicians aren’t luxury phones, and strong imagery can be used to fuel division. The commonalities also speak to a set of shared values, which are every bit as real as the points of divergence.Take some time to explore the archive. It’s a fascinating resource, and filled with riddles about the moment you live in. What do you notice?I’m driving down the 101 toward San Francisco International Airport. A gray blanket of fog pours over the hills in the distance, smothering what would be a luminous California sunset. Eleanor is sitting next to me in the passenger seat taking deep breaths. She does not like to fly.I hesitate, then finally ask what’s on my mind, cutting the air between us. “I don’t want to put any pressure on you, but since this is the last time we’ll be hanging out for a while, I feel like we have drifted over the last year. Is there something I did wrong? Is there something you want to tell me? You know, before you leave?”We are driving to her one-way flight bound for Pittsburgh. She’s moving out of the San Francisco Bay Area, where we have both lived since we were kids. Our parents, who were themselves mixed transplants from New England and other parts of California, settled in the Bay in the ’70s and ’90s. Eleanor and I met in high school—two weirdos who recognized each other’s outsider-looking-in approach to the world. Now on the cusp of 30, we have 16 years of friendship between us. We did a podcast together. She went to work with me the day after my father died. We have gotten lost in the desert together, twice (before smartphones). On separate occasions, we have cleaned up each other’s vomit. We were once referred to as “hetero life mates.” And today she is leaving.There are other friends out in Pittsburgh who have made a calm life as artists, cooks, house-cleaners, and creatives: an impossibility in the Bay Area, unless you have family assistance. Eleanor visited them a few months ago, and charmed by their stability, the brick-paved streets, and the affordable apartments that lined them, it became impossible not to see how well she could do there too. Among other talents, she is, first and foremost, an artist.I’m not.I’m telling her “I feel like we’ve drifted.” What I really want to say is “What could I have done to make you stay?”“There’s nothing really,” she says, “I mean, the political climate has been hard. But also it’s just the Bay. Inviting people out to Stinson is easy, getting people to visit me when I have nowhere to host them is harder.”Several months ago, she had made the difficult decision to move back onto a small corner of her parents beachtown property, after her urban East Bay house became waterlogged during the rainstorms of 2016. We had to move her out over a weekend, after the mold took half the furniture and gave her roommate pneumonia in both lungs. I touched swollen blisters of stagnant rainwater, pulsing on her walls. After emailing the landlord about the issues, the housemates abandoned the property. He then successfully sued them in accordance with California tenant laws.Although moving back to your parents’ home is never ideal, Eleanor didn’t have a lot of other options. But Stinson was not the little village she had left behind for college.While only accessible by a narrow 10-mile strip of road lined by falling rocks and perilous sea cliffs, Stinson Beach is nevertheless one of the most popular day trips for San Francisco urbanites. Once a salty refuge for dendrophilic introverts and quiet hippies of means, Stinson spent the last few years transforming into a seaside “simpler times” theme park for San Francisco’s stratospherically wealthy. Eleanor had spent the last few years watching her foggy hometown gorge with tourists in $300 jeans on a mission for an idyllic, sand-weathered NorCal experience.But hating rich tourists simply for flooding the place with money is not the reason Eleanor is leaving the Bay.She was a manager at an artisanal goods boutique, which directly served this crowd of fast-culture beneficiaries hungry for slow-culture products. She is also the child of interracial parents, who built their own house in Stinson when she was little more than a baby. The town was essentially her cocoon for over 15 years. As an adult, she quickly got hired at the boutique because, to quote Eleanor, “the owners know the signs of a townie who has returned with swallowed pride and no prospects.” But the tourists did not know these signs. The new deal for living in Stinson—her hometown—was getting used to hearing “Where are you from? Here? No way!” repeatedly from rich white people, who didn’t know how to fit a brown girl in their vision of an authentic seaside experience.She would then go home to an in-law unit, while those people retired to one of the lavish Airbnbs that now outnumbered permanent housing by about 3:1. “Imagine working at Disneyland, then going home to your place in the back of the Pirates of the Caribbean ride while drunk frat grads puke into the water,” she told me.To be clear, she loved her town and its bearing in the coastal California fantasy. She wanted to share it, brag about it, celebrate it. But selling bourgeoise yogurt crocks and $100 bottles of wine to people who didn’t see her as part of their shabby-chic fantasy was becoming difficult to bear. She was also onboarding other displaced “village kids” who were doing exactly what she was doing: moving back home, into their parents’ offices, in-law units, and backyards. Having only kind words and a dead-end service job to offer them was making her grow thorns.She was unhappy. The boutique was becoming a psychological warfare zone. She had tried her hand doing sales at a startup, but the work was soul-fraying. Art made her happy, and she was genuinely talented, but working at a couture costume shop and an internationally acclaimed ceramics studio wasn’t enough to pay the bills. She couldn’t afford to move.The muse was not only dead—it couldn’t afford the resuscitation fee.This is why I never doubted her desire to leave the Bay Area. But my guilt came from somewhere else.I had not been facing these problems. I dabble in dance, but I was too cowardly to ever accept the life of an artist. I work in tech.To clarify, I am not a programmer. I say I am a “techie” in the sense that I have positioned myself, through a combination of hard work, luck, and privilege, to benefit from the startup bomb that exploded in my backyard 10 years ago. I was handed a sales job by a family friend right out of college, and I took it greedily, not looking back until, well, now. Mostly I have worked in sales, marketing, and user research. For my efforts, I live in a gritty but familial part of the sprawling, controversial metropolis of Oakland. I have my own en suite bathroom and a tiny balcony where I can grow useless amounts of herbs and play at “connecting to the land.” My roommate is a professional journalist with a blue checkmark on Twitter. We’re both in our thirties. We understand that with our respective shares of the rent, we could be paying mortgages on entire houses in Denver or Austin. But we are here. Our friends (what’s left of them) and family are here; my job network is here. Two fully-employed middle-class women in their thirties splitting bills on Venmo and figuring out how to most diplomatically accuse the other of eating more of the peanut butter. This is normal in the Bay Area. Only programmers live alone. Only rich programmers own houses.Setting aside for a moment Oakland’s own gentrification culture war (which would be another 20-minute essay), it is a two-hour drive away from Eleanor’s home in Stinson. It should only be an hour, but the traffic on the 580 moved from “rush-hour average” to “perpetual nightmare” sometime in 2014. With a regular work week, you don’t often have four hours to spare for a round-trip drive to see a friend—even the one who wouldn’t leave your side when your dad died.Had we drifted? Of course we had. But it was more than the traffic and geography that was the source of my guilt. I felt I had played into the system that was financially and culturally kicking her out. And I’d realized it for the first time just as she’s leaving.“I’m scared I haven’t been a good enough friend to you,” I confess to her.“I do feel loved and supported,” she says.“I’m glad,” I say. And I mean it. I feel greedy for this absolution because I realize beyond the guilt, there’s another feeling: paranoia.For the first time, while sitting in full-stop traffic before the Bay Bridge in the ironically named “fastrak” lane, I count them in my head: 11 people I care about have left California in the past two years. Eleanor is number 12, and apparently the final straw that’s really making me pause and think “What the hell is going on?”She shifts next to me in the dead-stop traffic. I know her well enough at this point to know she is teeming with anxiety. “We’ll make the flight. We left early,” I say.“I know,” she says.But we both know this is not why she’s nervous.She’s nervous about the life shift. The constant cloud of “failure” that threatens to downpour on you at any minute if you live in the Bay Area is still looming over her head.What she doesn’t know yet is that this cloud, for her, is about to dissipate. Leaving the Bay Area is the best thing you can do right now, if you have a dream. She’s going to be fine, she just doesn’t know it yet.Moving, especially moving across the country, is an enormous, yet hardly uncommon, life shift. Leaving one’s hometown to forge a better future in a new city is one of the most traditional adult rites of passage that we as Americans have. Eleanor and I had a few friends who left the Bay around 2012 and 2013 for career opportunities, to be with a spouse, or to take a rare internship. We wished them well. It was hard, but normal. We were in our early twenties.There’s something not normal, however, about the number of people who have taken flight out of California in the past year or so.If you go to Austin, New Orleans, Kansas City, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Portland, Seattle, Chicago, and Denver—to name just a few—you can easily find folks transplanted from other cities and states. You can also easily find a band of locals bemoaning, specifically, the “f***ing Californians” who are flooding their home, driving up rents, installing yoga studios, polluting the local vibe with new technology, and generally making everything suck while sipping kale juice. We’re threatening Austin’s weirdness and erasing Bozeman’s cowboys. We seem to be everywhere you look, ruining other cities, apparently by not staying where we ought to—back in California.It would appear we are fleeing California like it’s on fire (which, actually, it literally is lately); only large quantities of “foreign” people moving into one area typically disrupt culture and incite hatred like that. Yet, San Francisco rent continues to lead the nation based on white-hot demand. This doesn’t really make sense.Let me offer a snapshot of San Francisco in 2018:A friend is having a birthday party at a funky dive bar in the Mission and has invited you. Despite the ostensibly blue-collar aesthetic, you pay $14 for a cocktail containing house-made lavender syrup and organic gin. You lean against a vintage pinball machine, a shrine to the predigital adolescence half the people in the bar never had, and proceed to make small talk with the other guests, asking, “Where are you from?”And, of course, you encounter several international immigrants from Europe, Latin America, and Asia, who never ever seem to complain about housing costs, traffic, Whole Foods, or you.One person says, “I’m a Bay Area native.”Being a Bay Area native does not mean this person is Miwok or Ohlone (two Native American tribes who originally lived here). It just means they lived in the Bay before tech took off. It’s like wearing an invisible bachelorette party sash that says: “The startup tsunami basically came to me. I am both riding the wave and I can complain about it.” (Or, depending on their shoes, it could mean, “My dad founded a venture capital firm and my apartment’s lot is worth more than your entire life.”) This person will proceed to complain about rent and the general loss of culture they have witnessed over the past 10 years.But what this “native” Bay Area kid won’t do is start blaming the guy from North Carolina or Wisconsin or Boston—basically every other person in the bar—for propelling the rents into the sky and inadvertently forcing the “locals” to flee. Someone may disagree with me here, but I just haven’t seen it done. If the conversation actually manages to advance far enough into blaming something for the Bay’s loss of culture and housing woes, the finger falls on the companies who employ these newcomers: Google, Genentech, Facebook, Twitter, Apple, etc. Even still, this finger of blame rarely gets raised above the hip; we use these companies’ products or benefit from their research every day.There is an apocalyptic amount of people moving into California, and no one blames them for the overcrowding and the shifting culture. But when too many Californians leave California and settle in, say, Portland, they are blamed for ruining the place by way of simply being themselves. I visited Seattle for the first time a month ago and was warned someone might throw a bottle at my car for my California plates. In Portland, I saw “No Californians” signs slapped onto “for sale” signs in yards. In Denver, I read news articles about friendlier locals advising Californians to tell people they were from literally anywhere else. You can Google virtually any city plus the phrase “hate Californians” and find pages of forums and articles giving voice to the hatred of Golden State jerks “ruining” cities. This is not true for other domestic migrants.It is apparently Californians who are unique in their snobbery and ability to ruin other places.Yet I am having trouble feeling snobbish and superior when I’m losing friend after friend after friend to cities that don’t make it impossible to be a teacher, a painter, a bakery owner, or even a damn barista in order to have a full fridge and a fulfilling life.Also, above all, I don’t want California to stop growing and benefitting from all the international and domestic migrants who flock here for opportunity and/or safety. Despite the fact that my rent makes some people do spit-takes, I am still a beneficiary of an inflated Bay Area salary. On a daily basis, I get to work with freakishly brave, casually brilliant minds, curated and imported not just from across the United States, but India, China, Canada, Britain, New Zealand, and South America. At a dinner party, I get to sound like a comic book super scientist (“we’re finding the algorithm for love”) or a Bond villain’s understudy (“we’re building a robot army”). I am also proud to be part of a liberal community that is trying to be a safe zone for people who would otherwise be persecuted in other parts of the country or the world. And, to frost the cake, I get to experience all of this while being surrounded by majestic redwood forests, nationally conserved seashores, famous wines, temperate weather, and the entire food, music, and art accessory package that comes with being in a world-class city that international business kings and technology icons call “home.” Holy shit. The Bay Area is f*cking awesome, right?Yeah. Except for the part where everyone I love is leaving.I don’t want California to stop being a hub of brilliant, ambitious people. What I want is for California to be affordable to more than one kind of life. And I want the record set straight about who exactly is moving where and, above all, why.We are witnessing two migrations. One is the continuation of the Californian dream, where young people flock here for gold and glory, ready to hustle and disrupt, hammering to hit the motherlode and laughing at the odds. The other is the migration of young people out of California, that seems to have affected everyone I know, but I rarely hear examined. These people want to be artists, teachers, blacksmiths, therapists, mechanics, and musicians. They want to have children, open bakeries, own a house. But they can’t. There is no room here for those kinds of dreams anymore. They hear about someone’s success in New Orleans, Kansas City, or Pittsburgh, and they leave their families and communities behind on the chance they will, ironically, strike gold.To the angry locals of Portland, Seattle, Denver, New Orleans, Kansas City, Phoenix, Austin, and elsewhere, please hear this defense: The Californians who are coming in and “ruining” your cities are not snobs. They don’t have trust funds. They aren’t entitled. They are the opposite. They have been kicked out of their own backyards for not learning Python fast enough or not having a dad that could introduce them to VC firms or not wanting to live in their family’s in-law unit at age 30 or not being able to afford a $2,000/month studio on a $20/hour paycheck. They aren’t techies; they had the audacity to want something besides tech. They are some of our best, most creative, most hardworking people—and you are getting them. We are losing them.We are kind to your friends who move here to grow, to start things, to feel safe, to dream. So, please, be kind to my friends and their dreams too.At SFO, I watch as Eleanor walks inside the terminal with all her possessions: two trunks and a carry-on full of handmade ceramics. We hug. We tell each other I love you—something I rarely say—promise to keep in touch, and say all the other sentiments humans use to anesthetize loss. She turns the corner and is gone.I get back into my car. I take a breath. Instantly I crumple, like an angry teenager, gasping and wiping tears all over my face. I want to slam the steering wheel and have my own private “it isn’t fair” meltdown. But I don’t. The meter maids at SFO are fierce and will bear down on you if you idle in passenger loading for more than 30 seconds. The airport is a zoo of emergency lights, Ubers competing for space, attendants blaring whistles. At San Francisco’s busy pace, there is no time for examining loss.I take another breath, remembering that I am happy for her. I’m an adult. People move all the time. This is normal. It’s not my fault she’s gone, that all 12 of them are gone. Normal. People move all the time. Nothing I could have done.I can’t change the rent.The fact that half of all Americans with health insurance get it through their jobs is a true oddity of the U.S. health care system. No other country operates in such a way. Yet surveys show that most people on employer-sponsored health insurance (ESHI) seem to be happy with it. So why shouldn’t we follow the old maxim “If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it?”The Affordable Care Act took that approach. Rather than trying to replace ESHI, the ACA made having health insurance mandatory for employers with 50 or more workers. Yet serious health economists tell us that ESHI is “broke” after all. In fact, they say it is so profoundly dysfunctional that it deserves to be called the “original sin” of the U.S. health care system.ESHI’s biggest problems come down to three things: job lock, which reduces labor mobility of beneficiaries; the fundamental inequity in how benefits disproportionately go to the highest-paid workers; and the increased fragmentation of health care finance that comes from a system administered by thousands of separate employers.This term describes the tendency of employer-sponsored health insurance to discourage people from changing jobs, starting their own businesses, or cutting their hours (usually either to care for family members or move toward retirement). Job lock undermines labor market mobility, makes it harder to match workers to the most suitable jobs, and cuts labor productivity.Almost everyone seems to know at least one friend or relative who has taken a job that wasn’t great for them—or not left such a job—simply because it was the only way for them to get health coverage. A recent New York Times op-ed by former reporter Kurt Eichenwald dives into this experience. Eichenwald has a severe form of epilepsy, and the medication alone costs $50,000 a year. He vividly details 40 years of struggles to secure and keep health insurance. Small employers refused to hire him because he would send the company premium through the roof; he had frightening gaps in coverage and had to appeal to his parents to cover costly emergency room visits; and he recounts the humiliation of having to beg for an entry-level job far below his qualifications just to maintain coverage.Eichenwald’s situation is by no means rare. In the survey cited above, 46 percent of respondents listed health benefits as an important factor in deciding to work for their current employer. That includes 9 percent who reported health coverage was the decisive factor in taking the job. An even greater proportion, 56 percent, said that health insurance affected their decision to stay in their current job.There is much academic literature on the extent of job lock that is summarized well in a 2015 report by Dean Baker and published by the AARP Public Policy Institute. Baker noted that there is wide agreement among investigators that people with ESHI are less likely to change jobs, become self-employed, retire early, or reduce hours of work. Although there are many other factors besides health insurance that influence labor mobility, Baker concluded that even when those complicating factors are accounted for, job lock is a reality.A second criticism of employer-sponsored health insurance is its inequity. Workers with high-paying jobs get most of the benefits while those with lower pay or part-time status get little help.Differences in tax rates are part of the reason. According to data from the Kaiser Family Foundation, a typical ESHI policy with family coverage has a total cost of just under $20,000, of which employers pay about $14,000. Suppose you are a head of household earning $60,000 a year, sufficient to put you in the 25 percent federal tax bracket. Having your employer pay $14,000 of your insurance premium rather than getting that much extra in cash and paying the premium yourself would save you $3,500 in taxes. But if you are a top executive in the 40 percent tax bracket, the tax deductibility of the insurance is worth $5,600.However, according to the Tax Policy Center, some 44 percent of Americans pay no income tax at all—in most cases not because they enjoy massive loopholes but because their income is too low; 60 percent of the non-payers work. Even if they get ESHI, it gives them no tax benefit at all. They would be no worse off if health benefits were not deductible and employers added the cost of their insurance to their cash pay instead.There’s a second factor that adds to the inequity: Low-wage workers, by and large, are not even offered the option of health benefits. Data from the Social Security Administration show that only about one-third of workers in the lowest fifth of the wage distribution are offered health benefits and that less than 20 percent of them accept those offers. In contrast, more than 80 percent of those in the top fifth of the wage distribution are offered health benefits and accept them.Robert Kaestner and Darren Lubotsky, economists at the University of Illinois at Chicago, provide an estimate of the overall inequality of ESHI based on the combined effects of differences in tax rates and differences in offer and acceptance rates. The following chart from their study shows that workers in the bottom fifth of the family income distribution get annual benefits of less than $500 from ESHI while those in the top fifth get benefits averaging $4,500. What’s more, the value of health benefits to well-paid workers grew substantially over the period shown in the chart while the value for the lowest-paid workers decreased slightly.A third problem employer-sponsored health insurance contributes to is fragmentation of health care finance. A policy brief from Brandeis University put it this way:Fragmentation is a problem not only for small employers, who have little bargaining power in purchasing group policies from insurers, but also for larger employers. Many larger employers try to save on health-benefit costs by self-insuring. According to Collective Health, a company that advises employers on their ESHI programs, 79 percent of companies with 200 or more employees were self-insured in 2017, up from 60 percent in 1999.The problem is, companies that self-insure don’t always do a good job of it. Ali Diab, CEO and founder of Collective Health noted this in a post on the company’s blog:Recently, three corporate giants—Amazon, JPMorgan Chase, and Berkshire Hathaway—joined forces to form a combined health care enterprise to manage benefits for their hundreds of thousands of employees. The stock prices of traditional insurers fell when news of the consortium was announced, but many analysts are skeptical of how well it will work. Leemore Dafny, a professor at Harvard Business School, told reporters from the New York Times, “Just because you know an industry is underperforming and you have a lot of money doesn’t mean you have a successful strategy.” Dafny said she was excited to see such serious players take on the problems of ESHI but noted there were numerous examples of outsiders trying, and failing, to succeed in the health care system.When it comes down to hard bargaining, health care providers—including big insurers, hospitals, and drug companies—are less fragmented than employers. Furthermore, health care is what they know best. For employers whose main expertise lies in a number of other areas, health care is only a sideline. Given the structure of the system, providers will always come out ahead, driving up costs for workers and their families, which are the ultimate health care consumers.If employer-sponsored health insurance were a carefully crafted system established with some clear purpose in mind, we might think twice before getting rid of it, but it is not. Instead, people who have tried to trace its origins, like Indiana University’s Aaron Carroll, portray ESHI as an accident of history. Job-linked health benefits first became widespread during World War II when U.S. firms faced both a labor shortage and a wage freeze. Desperate to attract employees, the story goes, they started giving out benefits like health insurance instead of cash raises. The IRS boosted the popularity of ESHI by declaring such benefits to be nontaxable. When President Harry Truman’s attempts to establish a national health care system failed after the war, ESHI became a central element of a complex health care system whose many disparate parts have never fit together well.It really is good news, in a way, that ESHI is already fading away. The latest Employer Benefits Survey from the Kaiser Family Foundation shows that the percentage of employers offering health benefits declined from 68 percent in 2000 to 53 percent in 2017. Meanwhile, employee contributions and deductibles have been steadily increasing.We urgently need something better. It is time to stop putting up with the job lock, the inequities, and the fragmentation that characterize ESHI. Many of the leading ideas for health care reform, including universal catastrophic coverage (my preferred solution) and Bernie Sanders’ Medicare for All (popular among progressives), would replace ESHI altogether. Other reforms, such as the Medicare Extra plan from the Center for American Progress would allow both employers and employees to opt out of ESHI in favor of a fully portable type of insurance. The time to begin the transition is now.There are many ways to live a healthy life. The Health Diaries is a weekly series about the habits that keep notable people living well.David Sinclair is one of the world’s renowned longevity researchers. He believes that one day — sooner rather than later — scientists will be able to treat and even reverse aging. He’s spent the bulk of his career researching the pathways that control aging in the body. Sinclair, a geneticist and professor at Harvard Medical School, has helped identify the role of molecules that are potentially important for longevity, including resveratrol — found in small concentrations in the skin of grapes — and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD), a compound found naturally in the body that declines as we age but may be replenished through supplements.Sinclair is also a co-founder of Life Biosciences, a biopharmaceutical company that is investigating and commercializing treatments for aging. It’s the largest company addressing the eight pathways of what Life Biosciences refers to as age-related decline (ARD). Sinclair and his colleagues want to treat aging as a systemic breakdown of the body, rather than treating symptoms or specific conditions. Sinclair, who lives in Boston with his wife and three children, spoke to Medium about how he incorporates what he’s learned about longevity in the lab into his everyday life.I wake up every morning at 7 a.m., and I definitely need an alarm clock. I’m not morning person.I start the day with homemade yogurt. It’s whole milk with some special bacteria that we put in the oven. It takes 24 hours for it to culture, and it’s better than anything I know that you can buy. I sweeten it up with some stevia and throw some blueberries in there. I haven’t been sick since I started doing that a year ago.I don’t like vegetables, but I am slowly learning to like them more. I try to eat as many as I can for my health. Green or colored vegetables are my preference, not the starchy ones. In part because of their lower caloric level, but also because of their polyphenols—small molecules that have been shown to activate the body against diseases. I also try to avoid mammals. That’s mostly for health reasons.I often miss lunch because I am busy, but if I do eat lunch, I have a small soup or six pieces of sushi. That’s it. I am drinking tea throughout the day to stay hydrated.A typical dinner is a standard family meal, but I stick to small portions, and I don’t go back for seconds. My wife is a great cook. This is my big downfall. We eat as healthy as we can, but we have three kids. Usually it’s something unexpected and delicious.When I turned 40, about 10 years ago, I said no more dessert. Will I taste a little bit? Sure. But I don’t order it at restaurants.I wasn’t the healthiest kid, and I was overweight. I grew up in a household in the 1970s where there were always snacks around, like chips and peanuts. As soon as I got to college and discovered girls, I lost 15 pounds. I’ve kept off the weight since then, and I’ve been very conscious about what I eat, to the point that I drive people crazy.I practice what I discover. I take resveratrol, which we discovered had health properties 15 years ago, and an NAD supplement each day.I think low-calorie diets and fasting are potentially beneficial. It’s been known since 1916 that cutting back calories is beneficial in every organism it’s been tested on — from yeast to worms to mice to monkeys. I think it would be a surprise if we are an exception to that rule. I tried calorie restriction and couldn’t do it. It’s really hard to be hungry all the time. If I’m not hungry and I’m busy, I am quite happy to skip a meal. It’s informal intermittent fasting. I feel strongly that this is one of the strongest areas of longevity research. But I should caution that no one has done a full-scale, long-term clinical trial on this for longevity.It’s pretty hard for me to exercise regularly. I have gym at home, and my son—he’s 11—and I will try to go a couple times a week. I try to get my heart rate up on a treadmill once a week and lift some weights. I do pushups every morning before I go to work. I just feel better having done a little exercise at the beginning of the day, but that’s all I have time for, unfortunately.There’s no downtime in my life right now. It’s all occupied, and there’s no wasted time. If I have any spare time, I spend it with my children. I am in favor of work-life balance, and if someone could teach me how to be a better dad, please let me know. It’s getting harder every year.There’s so much that gets me excited every day. I have a front-row seat on hundreds of labs around the world. I’m very lucky in that way. I am helping bring together the world’s leading scientists in the field of aging. Not just to collaborate on science, but to collaborate on pharmaceutical development and make medicines that help the world. It’s been an incredible journey so far.At Life Biosciences, we are starting new companies every couple months to tackle new aspects of aging. There are eight so far, and we are not slowing down. There’s really new science that I can’t talk about yet, but it gives me a lot of confidence that we are going to see some really cool changes in medicine in our lifetime — if not much sooner than we think.I have an embarrassing confession to make: I kind of like Seth Abramson.Actually, no, not kind of. Fuck it. I like him.I will no longer cower in shame. The college professor, former public defender (and Harvard Law ’01 alum), occasional HuffPost blogger, popularizer of a newish cultural philosophy known as “metamodernism,” published experimental poet, and self-described “horizontal journalist” or “curatorial journalist” counts me among his as-of-this-moment 548,264 Twitter followers.For those who haven’t encountered his work, Abramson is what’s more commonly called a citizen journalist in that he writes about the Russia probe (which he would probably describe as a “Russia-Saudi Arabia-UAE-Qatar-Israel probe”) but is not connected with a major media institution.Or he wasn’t, that is, until he landed a book deal with Simon & Schuster, to the deep annoyance of just about everyone I know in the business.Not me. I’m fine with it. I got my hands on a review copy, and it turns out — contrary to early indications — not to be a collection of his tweets after all. Instead, Proof of Collusion: How Trump Betrayed America is a straightforward 400-plus page distillation of the available reporting on the subject to this point, culled almost entirely from published news articles and court filings, all boiling down to a simple if troubling contention: “Donald Trump and a core group of ten to twenty aids, associates and allies conspired with a hostile foreign power,” as Abramson put it, “to sell that power control over America’s foreign policy in exchange for financial reward and — eventually — covert election assistance.”It is, as the author concedes, merely a “theory of the case” at this point. But it’s the only plausible theory, he adds, that “coordinates with all the existing evidence” and “explains decades of suspicious behavior by Donald Trump, his family, and his closest associates.”Incredible as the story of Trump’s Russian entanglements always sounds when stated plainly, the evidence Abramson assembles is compelling, and we don’t know the half of it. Robert Mueller, presumably, knows more.Proof of Collusion may surprise Abramson’s detractors. Written more in the style of a legal criminal complaint than a potboiler, the book is almost entirely devoid of speculative musing or all-caps melodrama. Readers will search in vain for the juicy West Wing backbiting that made airport best-sellers out of Michael Wolff’s Fire and Fury and Bob Woodward’s Fear. In fact, it’s not even all that entertaining — and that’s to its credit. It’s more like homework. Or more accurately, by pulling together the many strands of a dizzyingly complex story, it offers a meticulous cheat sheet to the homework we should all be doing, diligently prepared by the relentlessly ostracized dork in the front row.I first encountered Abramson via his now infamous “MEGA-THREAD” from March 23, 2017. It boldly alleged: “The plot to sell America’s foreign policy for foreign oil _and_ steal an election in the bargain began at the Mayflower Hotel.” That first tweet out of an eventual 50 — declarative, nervy, unequivocal — went live at 8:45 p.m. that day and has since received over 21,000 likes and nearly as many retweets.The sprawling analysis did seem a touch overblown at the time — with its feverish speculation about the Trump campaign’s last-minute decision to switch the setting for the candidate’s first foreign-policy speech from the National Press Club to a ballroom in the Mayflower Hotel, claiming they needed more space. Abramson maintained that the new venue was smaller, theorizing that the real goal was to find a venue with private VIP areas in which one might, if so inclined, host an exclusive 24-person cocktail reception that would include the ambassadors to three countries (Russia, Italy, and Singapore) that were involved in a massive sale of stock in Rosneft, the Russian oil giant.Nineteen months ago, this seemed like a bit of a stretch. Even though Abramson had laid out his case in seemingly obsessive detail, relying as he does in the book on elements that had been reported in mainstream outlets, the thread did have the breathless tone of a conspiracy theory. And Abramson’s questionable decision to advertise it as a “MEGA-THREAD” was, in terms of Twitter etiquette, a little like wearing Vibram FiveFingers shoes to a Miss Universe after-party.Deadspin pounced, declaring Abramson “the reigning king of diarrhea tweeting” and pointing out a fatal flaw in his reasoning: The Mayflower ballroom is bigger. Whoops.But then, another twist! In short order, Abramson pointed out that actually, no, the speech had taken place not in the grand ballroom but in a different space that was, in fact, smaller, forcing Deadspin to begrudgingly update its post.This stuff is homework, and the nerdy kid is on it.The more critical issue with Abramson’s thread, from a journalistic point of view, was that line about “[selling] America’s foreign policy for foreign oil.” Because while it is alleged in the famous Steele dossier that the Trump team, via Carter Page, had been offered a massive brokerage fee on the Rosneft deal in exchange for loosening sanctions on Russia, it is not yet proven. In fact, Page denied that such a meeting even took place — until months later when he admitted under oath that it had.Was Abramson making a few leaps? Sure. And he’d kind of bared his ass with that “MEGA-THREAD” stuff. It’s not hard to see why Deadspin took the approach it did: Exposing an international criminal conspiracy is really hard. Why bother trying to run it down, and probably failing, when you can scoff at it instead and sound just as smart?The derision was unseemly, though. Abramson’s assertions might not have met the standards of the New York Times or another prestigious outlet — but this was Twitter. A grain of salt is standard equipment. And compared with most of what pours through my feed, this struck me as solid content.In the year and a half since, I pored over quite a few “MEGA-THREADS.” I absorbed Abramson’s analysis of the 2013 Miss Universe pageant and especially the allegations made by Kata Sarka, the former Miss Hungary. I have scrolled, spellbound, through these mostly well-reasoned speculations about the private walkway linking Trump Tower and Carter Page’s offices at 590 Madison; about the decisive pressure campaign against Jim Comey by rogue agents in the FBI’s New York field office; about the curious travels of George Papadopoulos; and about the Trump-Kennedy deal to put Brett Kavanaugh on the Supreme Court.Were they airtight in every detail? I have no fucking clue. But they were good threads, pulling together the reporting of credentialed journalists — reporting that those same journalists were often failing to place thing in context. While I never went so far as to retweet them (brushing off Abramson’s many cringey entreaties to do so), I did find them insightful.That makes me a dupe, according to my colleagues in the media, who made a crusade of trying to shame me and Abramson’s other followers for our innocent habit. A pile-on ensued, in which it seemed just about everyone got in at least one good sucker punch. The New Republic took a shot (“conspiracy mind-set”), followed by the Atlantic’s McKay Coppins (“delusional”), the Atlantic’s David Graham (“bizarre”), Slate (“hyperbolic sleight of hand”), and the Washington Post, which helpfully pointed out that “The New Republic and Atlantic have both dismissed the professor as a conspiracy theorist.”They all warned me off, deploying the deadliest snark in their respective arsenals. I read each one, and then I kept reading Abramson. Sure, he got a little over his skis sometimes — like when he speculated about the identity of the dossier’s “Source E.” But the speculation was labeled as such, and thoughtfully reasoned; you could follow the logic, even dig up the source material if you were so inclined, and decide whether it made sense. Plus, as I said, it was just Twitter, and speculating on Twitter about the biggest and most mind-bogglingly Pynchonesque news story any of us have ever encountered seemed like a perfectly worthy endeavor. And anyway, even the mainstream media makes an occasional mistake.But wow, the shade. Taken together, the mini-genre of Abramson hit-pieces constitute a master class in journalistic smarm. Rather than engaging with the content of his feed, they sought to handcuff him to a brigade of left-leaning conspiracy tweeters with whom he has little in common. They taunted him for being a poet, for being a creative writing professor, and for calling himself an attorney when his membership in the New Hampshire bar was, in fact, classified as “inactive.” And of course, for being thirsty online.Curiously, though, what almost none of them bothered to do, with all the homilies about proper journalistic practice, was reach out to him for comment.“I totally would talk to them, and they wouldn’t be able to write their piece, by the way,” Abramson insisted, sitting on the patio of his tidy home on a suburban street in southern New Hampshire, where he lives with his wife, a bunch of bird plushies, and a Lego collection. This was in the spring of 2017. The Trump administration was still fresh, and Abramson’s follower count numbered in the lowish six figures. I happened to be on vacation nearby, and I’d arranged a meeting thinking he might make an interesting subject for a profile. We wound up talking for four hours.“I mean you can see from this conversation,” he went on, “that they probably would have just said, ‘Fuck this, I want don’t want to write about it because it’s too stupid and complicated.’”It occurred to me that he might have a point. Nothing about Abramson is stupid, but he is complicated. He’s a Twitter celebrity, granted, and a Harvard-trained lawyer, but he’s also a scholar with a penchant for esoteric ideas and philosophical musings. And yes, he’s a poet (and poets, as he helpfully pointed out, are accustomed to being misunderstood).With a chorus of birds in the background — bluejays, cardinals, robins, goldfinches, and “obviously a lot of sparrows,” he said — we talked less about Trump than about other aspects of his career, about his work as a criminal defense attorney and subsequent shift to academia; his battles with the literary establishment over the proper evaluation of MFA programs; his failed attempt to publish Shia LaBeouf’s tweets in the Best American Experimental Writing anthology, which he edits; his brazen incitement of the Star Wars fandom; his targeting by neo-Nazi hacker Andrew “weev” Auernheimer; and most of all, his embrace of a new philosophical paradigm known as metamodernism.Abramson, who grew up in Acton, Massachusetts, was a shy kid, a “nonclinical agoraphobic,” as he puts it. Aside from going to school, he told me, “I stayed in my room with the doors locked almost every day for years. That was my life.”When he finally resolved to make a change, it was a big one. At 19, he began working as a criminal investigator for a legal clinic in Washington, D.C., a move he thinks of as “a sort of violent overreaction to having done a certain amount of damage to myself as a young person by shutting myself off from the world. I went from sitting in my room to working the streets of Anacostia searching for witnesses and doing witness interviews.”After graduating from Dartmouth, he entered Harvard Law with the goal of becoming a defense attorney. Abramson began working cases while still in school under Rule 33, which allows law students to represent indigent defendants. Court authorities gave him just 60 seconds to make his case to clients that they should let a student-attorney represent them, crouching to offer his services through a narrow “Judas slit” in the prison door.“You feel like a fraud,” he said. “You worry that you’re going to let them down. And you see a lot of suffering.”He turned to writing as a sort of therapeutic intervention, knocking out 400 poems in one year. After spending seven years as a public defender, he burned out and decided to go back to school. “I just couldn’t do it anymore,” he said. “You’re seeing the car crash of our socioeconomics in the U.S. every single day. Emotionally I was breaking down. It was natural to reach for creative writing as a lifeline because it had always been that for me.”Abramson wound up getting an MFA at the Iowa Writers Workshop, followed by a doctorate in literary studies at the University of Wisconsin. Meanwhile, he became convinced that MFA programs were too insular. Many of the top programs offered little or no funding, which meant that only well-off students could afford to pursue the discipline. Abramson decided to create a new ranking system that took the views of applicants into account. Naturally, their responses favored programs that didn’t demand they go into crippling debt, and the results instantly upended the traditional hierarchy.Abramson says his goal was to force schools to offer MFA candidates more financial aid or risk their exalted status; meanwhile, he also pissed off a lot of people at elite programs. “They called me a charlatan,” he said of the backlash.Abramson describes his MFA ranking battle as his first attempt of many to redefine the role of poetry in American life.In May 2014, just two days after Elliot Rodger killed six people near the University of California at Santa Barbara, Abramson “remixed” Rodger’s final screed into an experimental poem and published it on the Huffington Post. The idea, he wrote, was to “to rescue language from a perversion of language,” to address the killer directly using his own words.The poem doesn’t really work, as even Abramson admits now. And he’d “crossed an uncrossable line,” he said. His detractors in academia denounced him, and a mass-condemnation on Twitter followed. “It causes me a lot of pain to think about,” he told me. “I was wrecked for six or eight months.”By December of that year, Abramson had soured on Twitter and deleted his feed, at least for awhile.If modernism, which flourished in the early 20th century, was animated by a belief in reason, science, and universal truths, postmodernists offered a powerful counterargument: Everything was relative. The grand master narratives were simply myths. Truth was in the eye of the beholder.Postmodernism turned out to be as depressing as it was persuasive, bringing on an epidemic of irony, self-consciousness, and passivity for which metamodernism proposes a cure. While it acknowledges that there is no objective truth, it nonetheless chooses to highlight the power of the stories, or “metanarratives,” that we tell about the world. And rather than getting hung up on longstanding dualities — cynicism versus optimism, reality versus fantasy, irony versus sincerity — it dances between the poles instead.It’s a heady concept, but those who stumble on it often begin to see examples of metamodernism throughout the culture. It certainly helps explain how Abramson managed to identify the tectonic significance of Donald Trump’s presidential bid when nearly everyone else in the media was laughing it off.The day after Trump announced his campaign in the summer of 2015, when the developer and TV star was just one of a dozen aspirants for the Republican nomination, Abramson posted an essay in which he argued that Trump’s was “a serious candidacy that will have serious repercussions for both Democrats and Republicans alike.” Rather than viewing the campaign as either a cynical branding ploy or a sincere attempt to lead the country, Abramson insisted it was both.“Trump is smart enough to know when he — or his speeches; or his haircut; or his political ambitions — are being mocked,” he wrote, “but in the Metamodern Age we can develop metanarratives that animate us even as we fully recognize that they’re farcical to everyone else.”As the campaign heated up, Abramson found himself doing the much same thing — developing metanarratives that, despite having a factual basis, were often seen as patently absurd. A supporter of Bernie Sanders, he wrote a series of pieces on HuffPo arguing that the Vermont senator had a real shot — essays that would later become Exhibit A in the media’s effort to paint Abramson as a peddler of false hopes for delusional liberals.The pushback, while missing the point, was predictable. Abramson’s headlines, like “Bernie Sanders Is Currently Winning the Democratic Primary Race, and I’ll Prove It to You” and “Bernie Sanders Could Still Win the Democratic Nomination — No, Seriously” were, he admits, a form of clickbait. And of course, Sanders eventually lost to Clinton, as the mainstream press had tirelessly predicted.But the pieces are more subtle than critics acknowledged. The first made an interesting and original observation: If you ignored early balloting (which often took place before Sanders was well-known to voters) and looked only at election day votes in states that Sanders contested, he often tied or beat Clinton. The second piece explores an unlikely but plausible scenario where Sanders’ habit of doubling Clinton’s lead in head-to-head matchups against Trump might just spook her superdelegates into a mass defection.Gaming out such unlikely scenarios was risky, and Abramson was roundly mocked for it. But that doesn’t make play-it-safe punditry a more valuable service to readers.Abramson’s metanarratives, by contrast, served to remind us that that there are no foregone conclusions in politics — a view that, had it been adopted by the mainstream press, might have insulated them from their own eventual mass delusion: that our 45th president would wear a pantsuit.What journalists don’t always seem to grasp is that we are also writing metanarratives — assembling the available facts to tell stories. Where Abramson views metamodernism as an antidote to postmodernism’s despair, the metanarratives proffered by the mainstream media tend to be cynical, in the familiar postmodern style. Despite a widespread desire to “make a difference,” we’re a jaded group by nature, hovering over the news cycle like streetwise Law & Order detectives called to yet another homicide. “Looks like we got another one,” we say, with a world-weary shake of the head.But the Trump campaign’s interactions with foreign powers, and Russia’s active measures, and everything that’s happened since do not actually constitute just another run-of-the-mill political scandal. Not even close. And while individual reporters have done impressive work illuminating various aspects of the story (and Abramson dutifully thanks them, and their employers, in his book’s acknowledgements), as a whole, the media hasn’t quite risen to the occasion. Day after day, they reach for an obsolete playbook: chasing scooplets then failing to contextualize them; amplifying the administration’s most farcical assertions and then sanctimoniously fact-checking them; examining the optics of each fresh outrage without illuminating the damage; and regularly failing to process the ramifications of their own reporting. (Note, for example, the recent uproar over Axios’ would-be scoop involving the supposed elimination of birthright citizenship.)One of the appeals of Abramson’s Trump threads is that the one-time criminal defense attorney has somehow retained the ability to recognize the apparent criminality behind Trump’s endless spectacles — the appointment of Matt Whitaker as acting attorney general being one recent example — when most of us have long since gone numb.All available evidence indicates that the chief executive of the world’s only current superpower has a history of criminal behavior going back decades, that his election owes in part to criminal acts and is therefore fundamentally illegitimate, that he may be compromised by a hostile power, and that he is now bargaining away the nation’s foreign policy and attacking its most deeply held values to save his own skin or fatten his wallet or both.Sounds like a hell of a story. It also sounds… kind of overwhelming.Weaponized eye-rolling is an understandable response to Trump’s manufactured chaos. It’s easier to moralize about the dangerous allure of conspiracy theories than to seriously consider the implications of what we already know. Then again, in much the way the entire media except two reporters ignored the implications of the Watergate break-in for a solid year, there was also a time, not long ago, when the Trump-Russia scandal might well have been buried amid the president’s endless barrage of distractions were it not for a bunch of annoying people — credentialed journalists as well as civilians — who wouldn’t stop harping on it.Under the circumstances, Abramson has performed a valuable service. While the rest of the media is feverishly chasing and then dissecting the latest unconscionable but somehow weightless revelation, he’s taken on the more complicated task of actually looking at what’s come to light, putting the pieces together and seeing what the fuck they add up to.Which isn’t to say he hasn’t made himself a pretty tempting target while doing so. Abramson is a weird dude. He’s really into Lego. He’s socially awkward and a little compulsive, and he may have a slight martyr complex. He takes himself extremely seriously. On occasion, he might overshoot the mark a bit. His book proposal sounds insane (although it did land him a book deal). He shamelessly solicits retweets and yet he has more followers than most of us put together.He’s also probably right. And until Mueller files his report — if he files his report — Abramson’s metanarrative may be the best we have.Cody Wilson used one word to summarize the culminating event in his years-long lawsuit against the U.S. government: “Epochal.”This was in July, when news became public about the Department of Justice reaching a legal settlement with Defense Distributed, the Texas nonprofit Wilson founded in 2012 to help distribute 3D-printed firearms. And the response was what I expected from Wilson, a 30-year-old provocateur prone to self-mythologizing. I met him in 2014, when he was 26, after he had successfully designed, manufactured, and test-fired the Liberator, the world’s first fully 3D-printed gun. That breakthrough, and his subsequent effort to disseminate the blueprint to anyone with an internet connection, unleashed all manner of hell.Wilson has long been a showman, equal parts ideologue and 1960s ad man, prone to philosophical meandering and asseverations about state tyranny and possessing a penchant for deliberately poking the political class. His sincerity was often questioned, but even four years removed, I knew what a victory over the federal government meant to him. It meant that Cody Wilson had come tantalizingly close to his dream of dismembering U.S. gun control.“I don’t have to argue philosophically now,” he said during a short phone call at the end of August. “I only have to argue the law.”Two weeks later, the law caught up to Wilson, albeit in a far different way. He was arrested in Taiwan and extradited to the United States for allegedly sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. He met her on SugarDaddyMeet.com, used his real name, called himself a “big deal,” picked her up in an SUV registered to Defense Distributed, took her to a hotel, had sex with her, and paid her five $100 bills, according to an affidavit by Shaun Donovan, a detective with the Austin Police Department. On September 21, the day of his arrest, Wilson resigned from the company.The scandal inspired a measure of glee in Wilson’s opponents. “But the NRA told us Cody Wilson was a good guy with a gun…,” Shannon Watts, founder of gun-control advocacy group Moms Demand, wrote on Twitter.The following Tuesday, however, Paloma Heindorff, vice president of operations at Defense Distributed, introduced herself as the nonprofit’s new director. Heindorff, a three-year veteran of the company, struck a defiant attitude during a press conference, describing her employees as “resilient” and parrying all queries about Wilson’s new legal predicament. Reporters present asked the obvious question: How does Defense Distributed continue on without Cody Wilson? Heindorff had an answer at the ready. “We believe in something, and that something isn’t one man,” she said. “That something is an idea, and we are fully committed to that idea.”For a moment, it may have seemed that the idea of 3D-printed guns might follow Cody Wilson down. But the idea Heindorff invokes — the idea that gun control as we know it can be destroyed by giving every American the capacity to build their own guns — may simply be too powerful to stop.Before 2013, Cody Wilson had used 3D printing to successfully manufacture rifle magazines and the AR-15 lower receiver (the piece, regulated by the federal government, that is required to actually operate the rifle). But it wasn’t until he released the Liberator that he became notorious. After Wilson uploaded the digital blueprints to Defcad.com, a clearinghouse Defense Distributed set up to share its various computer-aided design files for gun components, plans for the Liberator were downloaded 100,000 times. Two days later, Wilson dropped out of law school at the University of Texas. A couple days after that, the State Department ordered him to take his files offline, citing arms export control law. Because people in other countries could download those files, the government argued, Defense Distributed was illegally trafficking guns. Wilson complied and shut down Defcad.The Defcad files had been offline for a year and a half when I visited Defense Distributed’s Austin-based factory in 2014. That December, Wilson was preparing an entirely different project: the Ghost Gunner, a desktop milling machine that enables even know-nothing machinists to mill a four-fifths-finished aluminum lower receiver to completion. Because purchasing what’s called an “80 percent lower” doesn’t require a background check, users of the Ghost Gunner could complete the component and then purchase the remaining parts of an AR-15 rifle — also without a background check — to build an untraceable firearm. Wilson said he sold out a preorder of 500 machines, grossing $700,000, and teased his forthcoming legal battle. “There will be a Defense Distributed v. United States that those bastards at UT law will have to read one day,” he told me then.True to his word, in May 2015, Defense Distributed used the money from Ghost Gunner sales to sue the State Department, essentially arguing that the federal government ordering files off the internet is akin to a prior restraint of speech. In doing so, it coupled the First and Second Amendments by contending that digital files are a form of expression. The move found unlikely supporters. Even the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press submitted an amicus brief in Defense Distributed’s favor. “To come after the Second Amendment now, you increasingly have to come after people’s ability to publish and communicate,” Wilson speculated four years ago.When the State Department ordered the company to shut down Defcad in 2013, its argument concerned only the alleged violation of federal arms export control law, not the act itself of publishing digital gun files. After all, technical data about guns, including their manufacture, is readily available elsewhere online and in library books about gunsmithing.When the government settled this year, the State Department denied that it violated Defense Distributed’s First and Second Amendment rights — and yet the settlement itself indirectly conceded the point. It gave Defense Distributed a license to publish all the files it had previously ordered the company to take offline, effectively agreeing with Defense Distributed’s take on the fundamental question underlying the entire legal conflict: that computer code, even code that can lead to the production of a functional firearm, is protected speech.It was a bold gambit, but a winning one. On July 27, 2018, 10 files — including the full technical plans of the AR-15 and the 3D-printable design file of the Liberator — reappeared on Defcad.com. No longer was Wilson a mere tech-savvy Dennis the Menace. He was now a fully sanctioned arms dealer with the law on his side.The fact that Defense Distributed could continue distributing files is far less important than the broader implications of the fight. By savvy and subversive use of technology, Wilson had not only muddled what it means to sell, obtain, and own a gun; he had also called into question what a gun actually is, thereby transforming a legal question into a far more complicated technological problem practically inextricable from the concept of free expression. “I believe what I’m doing immeasurably enables the Second Amendment,” said Wilson during an interview with CBS on August 2. “It immeasurably expands it in a technical era.”Like Napster before it, Defense Distributed pushed America toward a new order where ownership is disordered, accountability is next to nil, and technology is always a few steps ahead of the law. This — anarchy, essentially — was always the plan. “What separated Defense Distributed from the impotent,” Wilson wrote in Come and Take It, the memoir he published in 2016, “was that when we said ‘universal access to arms,’ those who listened understood we meant just that… We not only meant it; we intended to take the fanatical steps to enact it.”Alarmed by the settlement with the federal government, state attorneys general moved in on July 30, four days after Defense Distributed’s files went back online. Eight of them sued the State Department, arguing that the settlement itself was unlawful. The next day, Judge Robert Lasnik of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington granted a temporary restraining order. Defense Distributed had to take down the files it had just reposted. On August 27, by which point attorneys general from 11 other states had joined in, Lasnik extended the order by granting a preliminary injunction, effectively blocking Defense Distributed, for the time being, from publishing its files online.“Regulation under the [Arms Export Control Act] means that the files cannot be uploaded to the internet,” Lasnik wrote in his court order, adding, “but they can be emailed, mailed, securely transmitted, or otherwise published within the United States.”True to form, the very next day, Wilson announced the company would sell the files via thumb drive to verified U.S. persons with verified U.S. addresses, likening Defense Distributed to the iTunes of digital gun sales. On the first day, Defense Distributed made $20,000 selling branded USB sticks that contained the 10 gun files it had just been forced to remove from the internet. The move smacked of the same counter-maneuvering that has marked the company’s efforts from the beginning.It is ongoing. “We’re still shipping and have no intention of stopping,” Heindorff said at the September press conference. “We believe that people have the right to have these files.”But the vision was always bigger than computer files, bigger than just getting a single-shot, 3D-printed pistol to fire. No mass shooting, no resurgent gun-control movement, no form of U.S. government could ever stand in the way of Defense Distributed’s first order of business: universal access to arms. Given many Americans’ strong attachment to the power of firearm ownership, this is an idea whose resonance will only deepen.The idea of universal access finds its perfect vessel in Paloma Heindorff, Wilson’s successor at Defense Distributed. Born and raised by artistic parents in central London, she grew up in a “socialist-leaning” family who was “definitely anti-firearm,” as she said during an episode of Tom Gresham’s syndicated radio show, Gun Talk, that aired in October 2017. It was only after she moved to New York City that Heindorff began her journey into pro-gun activism.“I was dismayed by the narrative in the world today, the idea we can be looked after by our government,” she told Gresham. “Not only is it ridiculous fundamentally, it also erodes the power that one can feel as an individual.”A libertarian friend of Heindorff’s originally turned her on to Defense Distributed. After spending a weekend watching slick YouTube clips of the nonprofit’s work, she emailed Wilson, received a reply, and in five weeks had moved everything she owned to Austin and took up a position at the company. In the span of two years, she went from having never fired a weapon to pulling the trigger on a .50-caliber M2 Browning machine gun.Heindorff didn’t respond to several email requests for comment, but it’s evident to anyone who has followed her that the idea of immeasurably enabling gun rights is as potent in Heindorff as it was in Wilson. “It’s obvious to everyone here that he’s been an incredibly powerful figurehead,” she said at the September press conference. “But this is about an idea.” Wilson may have the verve of a showman, but Heindorff has the zeal of a convert.Still, Heindorff must contend with one last obstacle: the preliminary injunction granted in August, a crucial, last-ditch effort for the states involved.“It’s been a happy coincidence for the states that the export laws have also protected the states themselves and their residents from these 3D-printed gun blueprints,” says Mary B. McCord, a visiting professor at Georgetown University Law School and former attorney with the Department of Justice. (In an article published over the summer, McCord called the First Amendment argument Wilson used in Defense Distributed’s legal fight mere “window dressing for his real goal: to put guns into the hands of every person who wants one.”)Since the preliminary injunction that took Defense Distributed’s files offline yet again, the company has raised about $400,000 to continue a legal fight it thought was over as of July. Defense Distributed filed its motion to dismiss in late October. If the case in Washington is thrown out, that protection the states have enjoyed goes away. (In the time since the motion was filed, a gunman killed 12 people at a bar in Los Angeles. Less than 24 hours later, a New Jersey law that outlaws 3D-printed guns and “ghost guns” went into effect. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said the law was passed “to stop the next Cody Wilson.”)Yet this fresh legal imbroglio has done little to halt Defense Distributed’s ultimate goal of expanding Americans’ access to guns. In a rebuttal to the state attorneys general, an unassociated website, CodeIsFreeSpeech.com, began hosting all the company’s files. (“Defense Distributed’s not posting its files, but you can find them in five seconds on Google,” says Josh Blackman, the group’s attorney.) Or you can simply buy a branded USB drive, a tiny source of terror that can’t be controlled: the samizdat of lethal weaponry, coursing through the underground, forever.Regardless of Cody Wilson’s fate, we’ve turned a corner. There’s likely no going back. His bitterest opponents, as much as anyone, know that fact all too well.“Cody Wilson was the face of Defense Distributed and 3D-printed guns, but we doubt that his movement will die with his resignation,” the co-presidents of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence said in a statement after Wilson resigned. “The Pandora’s box has been opened, and it will not go away with Wilson.”Last month, Apple added 158 new emojis to iOS, but the emoji keyboard on iPhone — the primary means of accessing each of these characters — remains almost identical to the one we used nearly a decade ago.Meanwhile, people push for competing interests. Some want more emojis to better represent the diverse world we live in while others are frustrated by the ever-increasing list of characters to scroll past when new emojis push old favorites to the side.“Just make it stop!” my friend Elle remarked after the most recent update, clearly falling in the latter camp of emoji traditionalists.The two problems have something in common: An ever-increasing library of emojis has started to push our gadgets to the limit. Too many new emojis make it harder to find what you actually want to use on the keyboard, and the keyboard itself can’t accommodate diverse options.All these issues need to be considered by the Unicode Consortium, the group responsible for approving new emoji characters each year. Unicode acts as the liaison between users and vendors when it comes to managing which new emojis come out when. (Full disclosure: My site, Emojipedia, is a voting Unicode member, and I participate with the emoji subcommittee.)With a potential onslaught of new emojis on the way in coming years, is the emoji keyboard up to the challenge?There are three main groups involved in approving, releasing, and using emojis. First, there’s Unicode, which approves and encodes emojis that will be supported by all major vendors — Apple, Google, and Samsung, for example. There’s no point in Unicode approving new emojis if vendors aren’t going to support them on their platforms.Meanwhile, those vendors want emojis that address the needs of their customers while remaining in line with their corporate values. They have a clear incentive to address user demand while also juggling how new additions fit on the keyboard and within the memory constraints of a mobile operating system.Finally, people who use emojis on products like iOS or WhatsApp want, well, a mix of everything. Some want more emojis to represent things like bagels; some don’t want a single new emoji unless the keyboard improves.Proposals for new emojis, both from companies and the general public, are assessed by the Unicode Consortium to see if they’ll be included in the Unicode Standard. But Unicode doesn’t handle the art direction for emojis; companies are responsible for how any emoji looks on their platform — which is why a smiley face looks different on an iPhone than a Galaxy — and that can make things complicated. Innovation can only go so far: Should any company stray too far from the rest of the pack, they risk drawing ire from their users. Plus, one company changing an emoji’s appearance won’t determine how it is seen by recipients with phones from different vendors.For example, one of the biggest issues with Apple unilaterally changing its gun emoji to look like a toy in 2016 wasn’t so much the change itself but the fact that Apple was the only company doing it. The result was cross-platform confusion where a toy water pistol could be sent from an iPhone and arrive as a lethal weapon on a Samsung Galaxy. (All major vendors eventually changed their gun emojis to toys in 2018.)Consider the wine glass emoji: It depicts red wine, not white, which could reasonably arouse the suspicions of a picky sommelier. If Unicode were to approve a new “white wine” character, it would raise other questions: What about rosé? What about stout or pale ale instead of a general beer? This might seem like nitpicking, but when you have a text-encoding standard that is deployed across billions of devices around the world, being thorough isn’t optional.To take a real example from the latest emoji update: Redheads, it seems, aren’t all that happy that they have been relegated to a single woman or man with red hair (plus skin tones) on the emoji keyboard. The bride emoji wasn’t given a red hair option, though she can have blond or brown hair. That problem extends to all the new hair-based emojis introduced this year. Though there are individual emojis depicting a person with curly hair, white hair, and no hair, you can’t mix and match them with other existing emojis, making it so that there are no options for a curly-haired runner, a red-haired surfer, or a bald police officer.Things become substantially more complicated when you add skin tones to the mix.The superhero emoji currently has 12 variants for gender and skin tone (six women, six men). Adding each hair type to those options of tones would take that 12 and make it 60 possible variants. Suddenly, choosing an emoji is like creating a character in The Sims — hardly feasible on a standard emoji keyboard.While accommodating all the different hairstyles would be a challenge, you could imagine how it would be possible — if Unicode and vendors decided to prioritize it. The emoji keyboard could probably handle four rows of hair types for each emoji if that was deemed a priority. But what if you wanted to mix all of this into the emojis that show more than one person — say, to create a diverse family? Well, it’s all about the numbers.As of 2018, most vendors don’t permit any emoji with multiple people in it to change skin tones. You can’t create a mixed-race family, and there would be two main design challenges if you could:Microsoft has some technology on Windows that makes emoji combinations more practical to implement than the pre-rendered designs used by Apple and Samsung. As such, Windows already allows thousands of family combinations in emoji format. But there’s a catch: There’s no interface to add them on the Windows emoji keyboard — which is lucky, actually, because no one wants to scroll past 52,000 family emojis to get to the lion or baseball.Those who don’t identify with the two current gender options that make up the bulk of the emoji choices have access to three gender-inclusive emojis for a child, adult, and older adult. These were approved in 2017 and effectively serve as a third unspecified gender for nonbinary folk (or anyone who happens to feel these emoji more closely resemble their personal style). These can’t currently be added to a family grouping on any platform nor are they given options for any of the new hairstyles. You can send an emoji of a mechanic, pilot, artist, or student who is a woman or a man but there’s not a gender-neutral emoji option for any of them.Diversity and representation are incredibly important, but there are real-world constraints that make unlimited diversity practically impossible given how emojis work today. The “press and hold” keyboard couldn’t support so many options, and even if it could, things would get extremely messy if some vendors adopted the diverse options and others didn’t.But there is good news on the horizon for diversity. An option to allow 55 new emojis for people holding hands is drafted for the 2019 emoji release. Being that there are only two people in this emoji, there are thousands fewer combinations than multi-person families would require.This might be the nudge vendors need to add new functionality to the trusty emoji keyboard, which could help down the line.The emoji keyboard is the most visible aspect of the emoji character set because it’s where we can see them all in one place. Apple’s emoji keyboard back in 2008 had just 471 emojis on it, yet it looked almost identical to the iOS keyboard today — which supports 2,776 emojis.Each new addition to the emoji keyboard is carefully inserted in the place it is deemed most logical, but users sometimes can’t find them. It’s easy enough to find the bagel among the food items, but what about the lab coat, ball of yarn, or abacus?And why do we need any of these new objects, anyway? It’s one thing to note that representation is important when it comes to people, but when it comes to objects, perhaps we’d manage fine without the new compass emoji added in 2018.Unicode has a wide variety of selection factors that go into determining which emoji proposals to approve. These mostly do a good job of filtering out emojis that aren’t likely to be popular or that really can’t be identified at tiny text sizes. The trouble is, an emoji that is superfluous to me might be considered essential to you. Just because I don’t have much use for a petri dish emoji doesn’t mean that no one does. For this reason, Unicode considers many new emojis every year, and it implements many of them.One feature would really help users sort through them all: search. Google has offered a search option on their Gboard emoji keyboard (that comes installed on stock Android devices) for years, and Apple has emoji search on the Mac.When it comes to the two most popular phone vendors on the planet — Apple and Samsung — there’s another alternative to scrolling for that perfect emoji, and that is autosuggest. When autosuggest works, it’s great. There’s no need to even open the emoji keyboard. I type “cocktail” and up comes a choice of two cocktail glasses. I type “monocle” and there is the monocle-wearing guy smiling smugly back at me. To get the finger pointing to the left, I type — well, I’m not sure, actually. “Pointing” gives me the single digit raised up; “finger” gives me no choices, and “left” suggests the word “leftovers” in the third segment of the screen where emojis generally appear.So go on, Apple, let us search.Another fix would be to let users hide emojis from the keyboard. Unicode doesn’t remove emojis from the Unicode Standard, but there’s nothing saying that every emoji must be shown on every emoji keyboard.It’s clear that when it comes to emojis for diverse families, couples, or other groupings, the “press-and-hold” function isn’t going to scale for hundreds or thousands of combinations. If diverse families are added to the mix in future years, the emoji keyboard will have to undergo substantial changes.Increased representation on our personal devices is important, and companies have recognized this by offering alternatives to the Unicode emoji set in recent years. Apple has Memoji, Samsung has AR Emoji, and Google has Minis, which all allow far more customization of individual people than Unicode could ever offer. These can’t be sent inline with text (one of the true reasons standard emojis are so popular), but they do fill a role that Unicode may never be able to.As Google’s head of emoji Jennifer Daniel puts it, “Sometimes you just really need a pink-haired monocle speckled giant hair bow wearing zombie with a goatee.” That level of detail is not likely in Unicode’s emoji future, but who knows what else might be?Every damn day, a window pops up in the upper right corner of my MacBook.Inevitably, I’ll click “try tonight” and, since my computer is rarely plugged in, I’ll get another notification — a reminder that updates can only occur when the computer is hooked up to a power supply.Despite feeling like I just updated my computer a few months ago, I’m still plagued with update notifications that pop up when I’m busy with other tasks (or just scrolling through Twitter). It’s relentless: Just when I thought I was free from my notification prison, I’d be reminded to update before I click — again! — “remind me tomorrow.”I’m not the only one enraged by my computer’s endless nagging. Tens of thousands of searches about disabling updates occur on Google every month, according to the platform’s keyword planning tool for advertisers. A 2017 Pew Research survey found that 14 percent of people never update their phone’s operating system, and 42 percent only do so when it’s convenient, despite these updates sometimes containing urgent security fixes.Research shows that notifications can destroy focus and even cause stress and anxiety. While researchers have yet to turn their clinical attention to software updates specifically, it’s likely that the unwanted diversion I get from annoying email push notifications, robocalls, or overactive group chats causes the same neurological response as my computer’s daily reminder that I’m not taking good enough care of it.Sara Thomée, an assistant psychology professor at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden, described it in evolutionary terms. Our brains, she told me, are evolved to react to stimuli to protect us against danger; a corresponding rise in stress hormones, like cortisol, will better enable us to react to that danger. In a sense, she said, technological notifications act in a similar way.“In a workday, where perhaps not many tigers are around, frequent notifications will probably raise our levels of stress and break our focus,” she said.One 2016 study looked at the neurological effect of smartphone notifications on subjects involved in a task, and found that notifications had a notable impact on the concentration and task performance of those prone to smartphone overuse. Research from the Future Work Centre, based in the United Kingdom, found that people who utilize email push notifications on their phones and computers also reported feeling stress and pressure around email.Part of that stress comes from splitting your attention between different things. Not only does switching your focus from one task (say, me writing this story) to another (a text message from my sister) require psychological energy; the inevitable switch back requires yet more energy, and that, Thomée said, delays productivity.Even worse, wrote neuroscientist Daniel Levitin in The Guardian, the necessary decision-making that arises when a notification interrupts another task causes further stress and energy depletion. Regardless of whether or not I elect to follow my computer’s prompt, the energy required to make that decision, and countless other similar, notification-prompted choices, accumulates over the course of the day.“It turns out that decision-making is also very hard on your neural resources,” Levitin wrote. “Little decisions appear to take up as much energy as big ones.”Thomée thinks guilt may play a part in this stressful energy depletion, noting that if we decide to go along with our technology’s demands, it could bring up anxiety about what that update will actually do to our devices. This fear isn’t entirely unwarranted: Apple is infamous for throttling older devices through iOS updates, and was hit last month with a $5.7 million fine from an Italian antitrust organization for slowing down phones with new software updates, as well as two class action lawsuits. Sony once released — and ultimately pulled — a PlayStation 3 update that completely broke some consoles.One study from May looked at why users don’t update their software by surveying existing literature and polling hundreds of people via Amazon Mechanical Turk and Google Consumer Surveys. It found that 7.5 percent of participants cited “update risk,” including “data loss due to the update, and whether the update may be malicious,” as a significant concern, compared to 40.5 percent for update “costs” like time and storage space. Twenty-nine percent cited “necessity” — whether the user feels the update is important or needed.Ultimately, as annoying and potentially risky as software update notifications are, it’s considerably more dangerous to leave your software out of date. Developers push updates in response to discovering vulnerabilities, so if you don’t update, you’re potentially putting your computer or phone at risk of being hacked.Yet, it’s undeniable that the current system doesn’t quite work, at least where apps are concerned. Research shows that push notifications trigger a majority of app uninstalls, which could be bad for business. And further studies found that even people who identify as software developers or IT professionals often neglect to update their software, and that timing certainly plays a role: If an update notification comes while you’re watching a video or doing work, you’re liable to ignore it.“Say you’re in the middle of talking to the board and your boss with this beautiful presentation you prepared for six months and then in the middle it says, ‘Please update your software.’ I mean, how stupid is that?” Nir Eyal, an author who specializes in the intersection of psychology and tech, said. Given the amount of data these companies have on us, Nir said, “they should be able to know when you’re in a meeting, when you’re using a piece of software and you don’t want to be interrupted.”“Silent updates,” where software automatically downloads and installs new data in the background to avoid interrupting users, can help. But that’s not always possible. For example, game or iOS updates can be many gigabytes large — too much to download over a cellular network, unless you’re into data overages — and require quite a bit of time to install.You can often opt into automatic updates via your device’s app store, and given how impactful those notifications can be, it’s probably wise to do so. There will always be some we must handle manually, however. Maybe we should also resign ourselves to the Sisyphean task of software updates as a price of admission in the modern world.Tim Wu has the kind of résumé that would make the most ambitious helicopter parent smile. A graduate of McGill and Harvard Law, Wu trained under some of the legal world’s biggest names, including Stephen Breyer, whom he clerked for on the Supreme Court. Wu was a professor by the time he was 30; today, he’s settled at Columbia Law, where he co-directs the Program on Law and Technology. Oh, and he worked for the Federal Trade Commission and later the National Economic Council, both under Obama. You might know him for coining the term “net neutrality” or for his 2010 book, The Master Switch, or maybe you voted for him for lieutenant governor of New York in 2014, when he took 40 percent of the Democratic primary.And yet, for all his time spent in the halls of power, Wu wants nothing more than to change the way America works. Wu’s slender but powerful new book, The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age, is a full-throated call for the government to use its authority to break up our biggest corporations, particularly tech titans like Facebook and Google.The day after the midterms, I reached Wu on the phone at his office in New York. We talked about the future prospects of antitrust politics, his thoughts on socialism and the state of the Democratic Party, and whether he’s auditioning for the role of America’s next great trust buster. Wu says The Curse of Bigness isn’t a job application, but he’s suspiciously well-qualified.Tim Wu: We’re dealing with a lot of questions that go back to the issue of concentration. If you look at decades of wage stagnation, huge inequality, that goes back to concentration. And our political system is controlled by those same monopolies too; you run into them whenever you try to make changes. It’s like if you want to change anything, first you have to handle the monopolies.We’ve had periods in this country where antitrust fervor was very strong. Both Democrats and Republicans had strong antitrust planks in their party platforms. There was even a whole antitrust party at one point. But it moved out of public view, into long court proceedings and back rooms. Antitrust got technocrafied and lost touch with the public. And that passion has been redirected elsewhere. With Trump, you have him channeling that energy at immigrants, for example, saying that’s who people should be upset with for the state of things, when it should be this corporate concentration. And over the past 40 years, antitrust has fallen out of the Democrats’ agenda too.Yes.I think so, yeah. People are hungry for big ideas — American ideas — that explain what’s going on, and antitrust does that. I’m not a socialist; I don’t think government should just own industries. That didn’t work too well in the 20th century. I do believe that we should, you know, have public options available in certain markets, but we need to learn from history on that one.I don’t think the two have to be opposed. Let’s say you’re a nurse in a small city, and all the hospitals are owned by the same company, and your wages haven’t gone up in years. You’ve got two ways of addressing that. The hospitals aren’t competing against each other for workers, because they’re concentrated, so you break up that hospital chain and you have a more competitive environment for labor and your wages go up. Maybe you also want to organize a union to handle it from that angle. But they don’t need to be opposed.Well, they convinced us — and maybe themselves — that they had a different business model, that they were giving things away for free, that antitrust didn’t apply in the same ways. I include myself in this, because I was at the Federal Trade Commission at the time, and we didn’t know how to deal with these companies. But then you start seeing the same sort of standard anticompetitive corporate behavior. You have these mergers, you have Facebook eating up Instagram, eating up WhatsApp, and then, let’s say, humbling Snap. They’re back to the regular corporate model.We should distinguish it from something like Wikipedia, which is different, and they took the steps and made the decision to set it up as a nonprofit. And that affects how it works. With these other companies, I think what happened is these guys decided they had to be billionaires.That’s true. Look, these are not the evilest companies on earth. Okay, Facebook has had some moments. But Google isn’t using child slaves to mine diamonds. I’d rather we have companies that aspire to do good, or at least not to be evil, than not have that. I think what happened is people started to think they could do more good by working in tech than by joining the government, and tech starts recruiting the kind of people who work in government. But nobody gets a pass.Ha, you mean is the book a job application? No, no, it’s not. But yes, I do think the iconic trust-buster/octopus hunter should make a comeback. That character helps connect the public to antitrust work. Trump is complicated, because he connects with the public in that way, fighting against companies as sort of rivals, but it’s not reflected in the policy.On the record, I’ll just say that I’m happy to work with anyone who wants to focus on antitrust. I’m especially happy to work with anyone who wants to appoint federal judges who are interested in antitrust. Economic thinking has fallen out of how Democrats evaluate judges, and it would be good to see that return. We need some neo-Brandeisians on the courts.He won? That’s great! He’s a friend and another Obama administration vet.Very strong. The states are going to have to step up. I ran at the state level. If the federal government doesn’t do it, then the states are going to have to. And there’s precedent for that: Minnesota took on the railroad, and Texas took on Microsoft early. But these cases can cost a lot of money and take a long time. Companies can wait states out.No, I haven’t heard of that one. I guess it’s so much of my work life that when I relax, it’s not what I search for.Huh. I’ll have to do that.Mars, our neighboring red dot, has been the focus of human exploration for hundreds of years. Science fiction writers, scientists, and explorers alike have spent decades imagining what life would be like if humankind could pick up and move there. Never mind the radiation, lack of oxygen, and inhospitable atmosphere. According to some billionaires and scientists, Mars is our future.The private space industry has exploded, with companies like SpaceX, Blue Origin, and Virgin Galactic all designing spacecrafts to bring people to the cosmos and orbit the earth as tourists, or, in SpaceX’s case, to set up a massive settlement of humans on Mars.But the field of space exploration is at an ethical impasse.Let’s set aside for a moment the fact that space travel is difficult and risky, and that people could die on the journey. Critics of privatized space travel also take issue with the implications these companies are built on. What does it mean when a company makes it their goal to colonize an entire planet?The desire to become interplanetary harkens back to the 19th century, when colonizers believed it was their God-given right to expand out to the west and take over land and communities. The adoption of Mars as a second home is the Manifest Destiny of the 21st century. Even the language is problematic. “Colonize Mars” is one of the phrases private companies use most often to describe their grand plans. SpaceX sells a T-shirt that reads “Occupy Mars.”“These issues intersect with so many lessons that we have here on Earth, be it the rights of indigenous people or the way we even think about a wild environment,” says Lucianne Walkowicz, the Baruch S. Blumberg NASA Chair of Astrobiology at the Kluge Center, and astronomer at the Adler Planetarium who studies the ethics of Mars exploration.Throughout history, colonization has resulted in mass deaths, the spread of disease, and the decimation or suppression of native cultures. Yet these issues are rarely discussed among Mars colonization planners. Some think Mars is a dead planet, covered in a fine layer of rusty dirt, rocks, and some frozen water. But despite our constant and steady exploration of Mars over the past 50 years, it’s unknown whether life exists there, or ever did. “We don’t know whether there is a history that we could study there or learn about,” Walkowicz says. “We don’t know whether there is life under the surface. There could be microbial communities. There could be more complicated stuff. We just don’t know.”Space moguls like Elon Musk brush off the issue. During a panel interview at the annual American Geophysical Union meeting in 2015, Musk was asked about planetary protection measures. “I think the reality is that there isn’t any life on the surface of Mars,” he responded. “There may be microbial life deep underground, where it’s shielded from radiation and the cold. That’s a possibility, but in that case, anything we do on the surface is not going to have a big impact on the subterranean life.”Experts don’t necessarily agree with Musk’s view and argue that more research is needed before declaring that there’s nothing worth preserving on the planet.Mars remains an untouched environment. Landing hundreds of people on the surface would be the equivalent of walking into a controlled laboratory and dousing everything with grime and dirt. For space scientists, the experiment would be ruined. Not to mention the fact that humans don’t have a great track record when it comes to environmental preservation. The health of our own planet — one that has clean water, breathable air, and an atmosphere that keeps us alive — is in crisis. We’ve done a terrible job taking care of the Earth. Why would Mars be any different?The fact is that scientific exploration is not the goal for wannabe Mars dwellers, and issues related to space preservation largely fall to NASA. While companies like SpaceX work closely with the agency, their goals are not necessarily aligned. It is the job of NASA’s Office of Planetary Protection to promote responsible exploration of the solar system and protect any indigenous life form, even if it’s ancient and no longer alive. Walkowicz says she worries that the current administration may be too lenient, policy-wise, toward business interests.Musk and others stand by their intentions to transport humans to Mars as a way to save the species in case of a disaster, like an asteroid or the repercussions from a massive world war. If we are wiped out, at least we have some extra human stock on Mars. But this logic is flawed, Walkowicz says, because it is “spreading the idea that global annihilation due to an asteroid could happen at any moment.”“It injects an urgency into human beings going to Mars that doesn’t actually exist,” she adds. “They’re always talking about the asteroid strike or in a billion years the sun is going to expand and make the earth too hot. Nobody ever brings up climate change.”If there is going to be a backup plan for humanity, who gets to be backed up? Mars settlement plans are likely to be offered to a select group of people, like those who can afford a $200,000 ticket on a SpaceX rocket. Although Musk paints a picture of a comfortable space life, anyone who takes that journey should know the risks. They might not get to come back. Mars could become home to a lot of unhappy wealthy people.If we have a chance to do this all again, experts argue, we should be careful and put a lot more thought and consideration into both the ethics and logistics of sending people to Mars. As part of her Kluge fellowship, Walkowicz recently held a conference called Decolonizing Mars that brought together scientists, philosophers, writers, artists, ethicists, and engineers to begin discussions on alternative plans. Walkowicz says she isn’t totally against sending humans to Mars, but she thinks the prospect needs to be approached more inclusively. “There are certainly aspects of learning about Mars — both its present and its history — that are way more efficient if you have humans there locally,” she says. “So I think there are compelling scientific reasons for humans to go.”Mars is by no means a realistic backup plan for our survival. It is, however, a hot spot for scientific exploration. Those who dream of setting up large communities in the cosmos need to work in tandem with those who have different goals and perspectives.“Just because there are some multibillionaires who have ideas about how we should go to space,” Walkowicz says, “doesn’t mean that there aren’t a lot of us with other ideas.”I meet Christy Harrison in a crowded Brooklyn bar on the first night of summer in 2017. She’s an extremely pretty brunette with chic, angled bangs and a great navy-striped dress. There’s also something just a little bit guarded about her. As we talk over pork belly sandwiches, I decide it might be from knowing she appears to fit seamlessly into one mold — stylish, thin, healthy-food-oriented — when, in fact, she’s been working hard for many years now to build a different kind of reputation. “I was a food writer,” Christy says, “who was really struggling with food.”Christy was on staff at Plenty, a hip indie magazine that ran for a few years in the mid-2000s, and later at the iconic Gourmet magazine in the final two years before it folded in 2009. She wrote about organic farming, biodynamic wine, and the evils of processed foods. “Oh, and I definitely helped fan the flames of the gluten-free craze,” Christy tells me. She’s not proud of this. Because in between all those fancy press lunches, chef interviews, and junkets on organic farms, Christy was spiraling. What began as a diet in college turned into a full-blown eating disorder by her early twenties. “My symptoms never fit neatly into one eating-disorder diagnosis,” she explains. “I would move between restricting, bingeing, and over-exercising, over and over, but it was always sort of nebulous.” Christy can only see the patterns of her disorder now, in retrospect. At the time, she thought she was just “obsessed with food,” and really no different from anyone else around her.Christy and I didn’t know each other during those years, but her story is familiar. I know the world she inhabited, because I was at its periphery, as a junior health editor at the now defunct Organic Style magazine, and later, as the kind of freelance writer whom women’s magazines call when they need a piece on which types of produce are the most important to buy organic, or why you should learn to cook quinoa.On one freelance assignment in 2007, I found myself sitting at the bar of the famed farmhouse-chic restaurant Blue Hill at Stone Barns, in Pocantico Hills, New York. It was noon on a Wednesday and the restaurant was closed, but I was eating the most delicious salad of my life, hand-prepared by the celebrity chef Dan Barber with greens picked that morning from his greenhouse and wild mushrooms foraged from the forests around the farm.I was there doing research for a book with a woman who, at the time, was a little bit famous for her philanthropy and her extreme vegan politics. After we ate our salads, the waiter brought out a plate of fresh-baked chocolate chip cookies for dessert. “Are those made with white sugar?” she asked. “I think we’re all done.” I had only eaten six mushrooms and three handfuls of micro-greens. The cookies, the waiter explained, were made with fair trade dark chocolate and butter from a cow named Tallulah. The vegan demurred again, this time citing her sympathy for Tallulah. Her assistant and the restaurant’s publicist followed suit. I took the cookie. Even the waiter seemed surprised.Back then, I focused on eco-food issues because I thought that niche would help me avoid writing the kind of weight-loss stories that women’s magazines are so notorious for running every month. I wrote those, too — when you’re a broke freelance writer, there’s not much you won’t write about — but always with a degree of existential crisis and bargaining: I would write them for women’s magazines, but not for teen magazines. I would write one about the relationship between blood sugar and white sugar because that seemed scientific and important. But eventually, I stopped wanting to write any such stories; I hated trying to find definitive answers about weight loss when the science was constantly shifting. And I hated telling women how to make their bodies smaller when I didn’t really believe they should. And so I embraced the eco-food movement, because — on the surface, at least — it wasn’t about calorie counting or crash diets. It was okay to eat the cookie, I thought, as long as it was made with fair trade chocolate and local butter and eggs. But as I learned that day at Stone Barns, it still wasn’t okay to eat the cookie, no matter how sustainably sourced the ingredient list was.This is because the eco-food movement, also known as the eco-gastronomy or alternative-food movement, was busy embracing the war on obesity, joining the front lines of the fight. And food became something to categorize — whole or processed, real or fake, clean or dirty — and to fear. Pretty soon almost every food and health writer I knew was dropping gluten or white sugar from her diet, then bringing it back, then dropping something else. Now that trend has gone mainstream; even my 88-year-old grandmother knows what gluten is and why half her family isn’t eating it on any given day. And that’s because the early to mid-2000s represented a kind of cultural awakening around food, driven by the success of movies like Super Size Me and books like Fast Food Nation and The Omnivore’s Dilemma. To be a food journalist, especially in New York City, at the glossy magazines that Christy wrote for, meant that you had be up on who made the best artisanal iced coffee and designer cupcakes, but also on the latest research showing why we’re not really meant to digest dairy, or the differing omega-3 quantities of grass-fed and grain-fed beef. It all felt really important, as if we were on the verge of discovering a profound connection between nutrition, health, and the environment that nobody had ever seen quite that way before.Connecting all her food anxieties to a larger movement made Christy feel “like I wasn’t just this vain, selfish person trying to lose weight.” Suddenly, her obsession with food had a larger, nobler purpose. “I thought, ‘I can help change the landscape and make everyone healthier,’” she said. “There was some desire to be communal about it, a kind of social justice drive.” Giving up meat and gluten wasn’t dieting — it was a hard and virtuous life choice that would transform your health and boost your green street cred at the same time. But in the hands of those celebrity chefs, food activists, actresses turned health gurus, and the media who love them, “eating clean” involves trading one set of food rules for another. “Now, I think about how much I was struggling and so were all these other food writers I know,” Christy says. “We kept thinking we were finding answers. But really, we were participating in this mass marketing of disordered eating.”It took several more years before Christy came to that realization and began to think critically about the alternative-food movement and the “clean eating” craze that it helped to fuel. As a food writer, she continued to cycle between the extremes of her disorder. Because a big part of the job is going out to eat exotic, lavish meals, at some point, a food writer who doesn’t eat just starts to look weird. “But I’d compensate by restricting even more when I was on my own,” she notes. And when Gourmet folded in 2009, Christy was still deeply passionate about helping to spread the gospel of whole foods, so she decided to get her master’s in public health and become a dietitian.At first, studying nutrition all day only further entrenched Christy’s eating habits. She wanted to do well in school, and it seemed as if eating perfectly was part of being a model student. But one day in class, everyone was told to partner up and take each other’s body measurements. They got on scales, they wrapped tape measures around their waists, hips, and necks, and they used calipers to measure the fat on the undersides of their arms. Obsessively tracking body size in this way is the kind of thing that people with eating disorders do all the time; so much so that putting away the scale and the tape measure is often an essential first step in any treatment program.Although Christy was far from recovered, she had made enough progress to know how dangerous it was for her to obsess over numbers like these. But refusing to participate didn’t feel like an option. So, she wrote down all her measurements. Then she looked in the textbook to see how her numbers compared to the “ideal” weight for someone of her height and build. She was, as she puts it, “more than a few pounds” over the textbook limit. “At first, I panicked, like, ‘Okay, I’ve got to really double down and eat even better,’” Christy recalls. “Then I realized: the only time I’d been that small was when I was in the most intense restriction period of my eating disorder.” She was done. “That’s when I decided to just throw out that whole model of thinking about food and weight.”When I reported nutrition stories in the early 2000s, conventional dietitians were often rattled by the organic foodie approach, and kept pointing out the surprisingly high calorie count of foods like olive oil, quinoa, and almond butter. But over the past decade, the two camps have slowly merged. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics spokespeople whom I interviewed for Redbook and Runner’s World became more fluent in the language of clean eating. They began talking less about how to choose chicken breasts the size of a deck of cards, and more about the nutrient profiles of various nut butters and how to cook whole grains. Meanwhile, the newer generation of alternative foodies has become much more interested in things like protein and carbohydrate grams, and how many of each you should or shouldn’t eat per day. And one core philosophy has always united both approaches: That we are what we eat. That food is medicine. And that there is no problem — be it constipation, migraines, infertility, or cancer — that cannot be solved, or at least vastly ameliorated, by changing your diet.There is a kernel of truth in almost every one of these notions. The industrialization of agriculture and food production has led to an overabundance of high-calorie foods, many of which are marketed with a veneer of health because they’re “low carb” or “gluten-free,” while also being largely nutrient-free. Producing these foods causes significant environmental damage and involves the use of chemicals and ingredients that aren’t great for our health.The problems begin when we consider the corollaries to statements like “You are what you eat.” If that’s true, then eating “bad” foods (Big Macs, Slushies, anything made with white flour or sugar) makes you a bad person. Or at least an uninformed, undisciplined one. Organic farmers and food activists may have originally banded together to take on huge corporations within the agricultural-industrial complex. But infusing their arguments with messages about health has led to the rise of a wellness-industrial complex, in which nutritionists, personal trainers, cookbook authors, and other “alternative-health experts” target us for our individual choices.Alternative food and wellness are big business now. The Amazon-Whole Foods deal was worth $13.7 billion. Sales of old-school diet staples like Lean Cuisine meals may have dropped by $100 million between 2014 and 2015, but expensive, largely organic meal-delivery services like Blue Apron generated close to $1.5 billion in sales in 2016. The Global Wellness Institute, a nonprofit based in Miami, Florida, which conducts industry research, calculates that the worldwide “wellness economy” is now worth $3.7 trillion. They attribute $999 billion of that to beauty and anti-aging products, and another $648 billion to “healthy eating, nutrition, and weight loss.” And the marketing around these products and services is just as powerful as any fast-food ad campaign.We are now so certain that every aspect of our health can be improved through diet, we can only blame ourselves when those diets fail. When cutting out gluten doesn’t work, we move on to dairy, then soy. When we still don’t feel better, we start reading about the evils of nightshade vegetables or peanuts. Still feel bloated, or tired, or lacking in energy — all impossible-to-quantify symptoms that may just reflect the unavoidable state of being mortal and not part superhero? Probably it’s because you weren’t careful enough about that gluten. Nutrition has become a permanently unsolvable Rubik’s Cube. So, we read more books, pin more blog posts, buy more products, and sign up for more classes and consultations. And we don’t realize how many of the so-called experts guiding us through this new and constantly changing landscape are exactly where Christy once was — fighting their own battles with food.Today, Christy still works as a dietitian, but she has dramatically revamped her practice. She worked in-house at two eating-disorder recovery centers in the New York area, and now coaches private clients, people who have gotten caught up in our culture-wide fixation with dieting and detoxes, and want to find a way out. She also hosts a weekly podcast, Food Psych, in which she interviews other dietitians, therapists, and people in the wellness industry who are trying to fight back against what Christy alternately refers to as “diet culture” or “the thin ideal.” Food Psych is well ranked on iTunes’ list of the Top 100 Health Podcasts, but when you look at the rest of the list — with names like Half Size Me, Livin’ La Vida Low-Carb, and Vegan Body Revolution — you realize just how hard this thing is that Christy is trying to do.You may have noticed that Porter County, Indiana still had 0 percent reporting for the 2018 election as of Friday morning. In the map below, Porter is that gray county in the upper left. I was a poll worker there this past Tuesday.Buckle up, because nothing in this story goes according to plan.This was my first year as a poll worker. My husband signed up with me. I was a poll clerk and my husband was an election judge (responsible for checking IDs at the door, helping with the scanners, and delivering ballots to the courthouse at the end of the day). We were excited to do our part to ensure every eligible voter in our county was allowed to cast a ballot. Yay, democracy!Our excitement started to wane when we weren’t trained. We emailed multiple times to ask about training. We were repeatedly told we would be trained soon. Finally, on October 26, after we’d practically begged over email to be trained, the county set up classes. However, they made it very difficult for poll workers to attend. Classes were announced at the last minute or were only offered during the workday. Due to the inconvenient and inflexible timing of these classes, I was unable to make any of the in-person training sessions. Instead, I watched the county’s online training videos and thoroughly studied the training manuals.I learned that each precinct has two judges and two clerks, one from each party. They’re there to ensure fairness. An inspector (a.k.a., the boss) is appointed from the leading party in each county. In theory, it’s very balanced. If anything, I’m glad I volunteered because I was able to see how elections work.Before I describe the shit show that was election day, I’ll note that everyone at the polling location was kind and there for one reason only — to make sure every single eligible person had the opportunity to vote. Democrats and Republicans worked together. The Republican inspector was fantastic. Honestly, it was inspiring.However, when we showed up at 5 a.m. on Election Day, we noticed many of the required election officials were missing. Two inspectors were M.I.A., and so were the ballots. We also didn’t have the required Republican and Democratic counterparts for each position. Less than an hour before the election was to start, we were unable to open — let alone guarantee a fair election. The only inspector who was there began making calls.The rest of us did what we could to get ready with limited supplies and people. At 6 a.m., the ballot boxes weren’t working. Inspectors were still M.I.A. We couldn’t open. My stomach sank. I was trying to do something good and now I’d probably be on local evening news.Finally, a sheriff’s deputy showed up with two suitcases full of ballots. (I originally mentioned on Twitter that he showed up after 6, but my husband said he thought it was actually shortly before 6. It was a hectic morning, and I apologize for the initial error.) We were still missing the required Republican and Democratic counterparts for each polling position so we improvised. We combined positions between the three precincts present and opened the polls at 6:12.Whew, right? Not even close. It just got worse.Shortly after we opened, voters from a fourth precinct started to show up. The newspaper had listed four precincts at our location. We knew nothing about this, and we had zero workers or ballots for a fourth precinct (we barely had what we needed for the three precincts we knew about).I wasn’t about to let these people just walk away without getting a chance to vote, so I got on the phone and started making calls. I tried the election and voter registration office numbers. All lines were busy. I finally tried the state election hotline and was able to reach someone. They informed me that the fourth precinct was not supposed to be at my polling place. So, I began sending those voters to the right address.The clerk’s office had listed the wrong address online. The newspaper used that misinformation in their election article. The Chesterton Tribune later published a correction:Everything should have been okay then, right? Uh, no.I soon learned the new location for the fourth precinct wasn’t open. Poll workers were in the parking lot, locked out. So, they turned voters away. Voters — many of whom I’d turned away — started coming back to our location, desperate to vote. I finally reached someone at the local level and told them about the locked polling location. By this time, it was 6:56 a.m. (nearly an hour after polls opened), and the official I spoke to was hearing about this issue for the first time.It was later reported that the locked location opened at 7:45 a.m., along with eleven other locations in the county that opened at least an hour late. That doesn’t even include locations like ours that opened approximately 15 minutes late.The courts got involved. The Democrats’ lawyers wanted to extend hours at those locations to make up for the late openings. Republicans fought it, originally saying an extension would be unfair (later, according to local media, they claimed the court did not have legal authority to extend voting hours). Thankfully, the state judge ordered the extended hours.But again, this was still not over.Around noon, we were told to expect a delivery of absentee ballots to count and include in our precinct’s vote total. We waited. Hours went by. No absentee ballots.The inspector started making phone calls. By now, it was 5 p.m. and there were still no absentee ballots. This may not seem like a big deal, but we’re talking about 15,000 or so absentee ballots across the county. All of them were supposed to be opened by me and the other clerks. We were supposed to look up every absentee voter in the poll book of registered voters, make sure they hadn’t voted in person, and mark them down as an absentee voter in the poll book. All of these absentee ballots were M.I.A. When 6 p.m. arrived, local officials told us to close without any absentee ballots. The inspector and the judges locked up the regular ballots and took them to the courthouse to be processed.When my husband, an election judge, arrived at the courthouse, he was told he couldn’t leave. Deputies were driving around the county in an attempt to deliver absentee ballots, but they were reporting that polling locations were closed. Apparently, no one could leave until the absentee ballots arrived and were counted. It was all very confusing.At this point, I put on my coat and was about to head to the courthouse myself to help count the absentee ballots. It didn’t matter that I had just worked for 13 hours. I was ready to finish my job. As I was walking out the door, my husband texted me to say I wasn’t allowed to help. Something about “chain of custody”? Whatever the reason, I was told I should stay home.Meanwhile, chaos was breaking out at the courthouse. People were worried about what happened to those absentee ballots while they were missing. Was the election compromised? Word spread that the absentees wouldn’t be counted, but instead would be marked as provisional ballots. Early voters were afraid they had possibly thrown their votes away. Local social media blew up. I tried to keep people informed, but I only knew what I saw and what I heard from my husband. The courts weighed in again to sort it out, ruling that all ballots (including absentee ballots) should be counted and included in the final results.At the same time, races were called. People in my county saw winners announced and knew their votes were sitting in a squad car somewhere, unable to affect the race at all.Lawyers and the courts (and now the FBI) are figuring out what happened in Porter County on November 6, 2018. They’ve reassured us that everything will be thoroughly investigated. We’ve been told that processes will be changed so this never happens again. Porter County’s election results have just been released, but the damage has already been done.It’s one thing to see a race called with 50 percent of your precinct reported. Your vote could have been in that 50 percent. Yes, technically, your vote could have been in the half not yet counted, but still, you can believe your vote mattered, even if your candidate didn’t win.It’s a completely different thing to know that your vote couldn’t possibly have mattered due to the incompetence of your local government. To know that officials in charge of the election did such a shoddy job that your ballot was sitting uncounted in a box in the trunk of a squad car as the rest of the country made critical decisions about its future.Officials in charge of this election weren’t equipped to do their job. They didn’t train us. They were short staffed. They broke multiple election laws, and I’m not sure they’ll ever be held accountable.Note: Elections in our county used to be run by an election board. This year, they voted to have the County Clerk’s office run it instead. The County Clerk was one of the deciding votes that made the change happen. That County Clerk, who was now in charge of this election, was on the ballot for County Auditor. Thankfully, she lost. Officials are now asking her to resign.It’s an unspoken downside of innovation: Sometimes a push into new technology can leave certain people behind. Ideas like virtual reality, touchscreens, and 3D television might promise new experiences for most of us. But for people with disabilities, they can mean motion sickness, muscle pain, or worse.This innovation-disability gap is a major problem in video games, and one company is doing a particularly bad job dealing with it. While Nintendo rides high on the success of its new Switch console, people with disabilities struggle to enjoy the company’s games. These gamers complain of trouble navigating hits like Super Mario Odyssey — if they can play the games at all — because they’re packed with fiddly interactions requiring a flick of the wrist or sensitivity to a controller’s vibrations. Nintendo didn’t reply to a request for comment before deadline.These problems with the Switch have actually plagued the company’s products for years. The company’s Wii console, launched way back in 2006, also relied on innovative motion controls that shut some people out of the system — ironic, because the Wii was supposedly designed around accessibility.Super Mario inventor Shigeru Miyamoto wanted to make a game controller that got away from the complicated buttons, sticks, and triggers you might find on a typical gaming joypad. Aware that nongamers might be intimidated by something like the standard Xbox 360 controller, Miyamoto created the Wii remote with an accessible design “that would make people want to pick it up and try using it.”The remote ended up being painted in glossy iPod white, had few buttons to press, and looked like a stylish TV remote. But the secret ingredient was a motion-sensitive chip that could translate swipes, wiggles, points, and shakes into gameplay on the screen.Suddenly, playing a golf game was as intuitive as holding the controller like the handle of a putter and swinging it toward the TV. The Wii remote could magically transform into a tennis racket or baseball bat, a conductor’s baton or a musical instrument, a sword or a pistol.This opened up gaming to a whole new audience, just like Miyamoto dreamed. There were stories about Wii bowling leagues in retirement homes and reports about the console showing up in Buckingham Palace and Obama’s White House.But for those with certain disabilities, the Wii remote proved to be completely inaccessible.Riley Park, 28, told Medium that he’s always loved Nintendo games. The first console his family owned was the Nintendo 64, and they kept playing with it until the Wii came out in 2006. But around that time, Park was diagnosed with essential tremors, a nerve disorder that causes parts of your body, usually your hands, to shake uncontrollably.“Small movements really cause my hands to shake, to the point where I sometimes require both hands to hold onto a spoon,” Park said. This made gaming with a motion-sensitive controller very difficult.“I had continual problems,” he explained. “Whenever any game required you to hold the remote in a certain still position for a time, like with Mario Party or the Rabbids party game, I often failed those. I sort of stopped playing games that were like that entirely, especially around friends.”The success of the Wii inspired other companies to dabble with controllers that created hardships for people with disabilities. In 2010, Microsoft launched the body-sensing Kinect camera for Xbox, which Wired memorably dubbed a “Wii-too product.” With games like Dance Central, it asked players to flail about, swing their arms up and down, and generally make massive fools of themselves. Needless to say, that was practically impossible for gamers with any number of physical disabilities.Years later, companies would launch virtual reality headsets like the Oculus Rift. These technological marvels can leave people with inner-ear conditions like vestibular neuritis feeling queasy.And when online multiplayer games started introducing voice chat, they left gamers who were deaf unable to communicate with team members.Though innovations like the Kinect could largely be ignored, all of Nintendo’s recent consoles have focused on technical gimmicks that exclude players with physical disabilities. If you want to fully enjoy some of the most popular games on the Switch, you will have to deal with motion controls.Hannah Wooffitt, 24, lives with chronic fatigue syndrome, and being bed-bound for multiple years has caused her muscles to atrophy. “Nintendo’s motion controls are my enemy,” she said.“My boyfriend loves Nintendo games, but there are few multiplayer games that I can actually play,” she added. “He was excited for a new Mario Party on the Switch in the hopes we could play it together, but when he bought it, we quickly found out that it was motion controls only, so that was the end of that.”Super Mario Odyssey, the latest entry in the long-running franchise, is littered with similar problems. The bombastic adventure locks many of its special moves behind motion controls. If you want to launch your buddy Cappy at enemies like a homing missile, for example, you need to frantically shake the controller (or, if you’re playing in handheld mode, the entire system).“I love Odyssey, but I have found some of the advanced spins and jumps nearly impossible to do,” Park said. Wooffitt ended up having to watch her boyfriend play the game rather than enjoy it with him.You can’t turn off those motion-powered moves, leading a gamer with Parkinson’s to rant on Reddit: “Is it possible to not throw Cappy every three seconds when your hands shake like a fucking washing machine on spin cycle?”There’s a lot Nintendo could do to fix these problems. It routinely has basic commands tied to wiggling a controller, like pounding on the floor in Donkey Kong, pirouetting in Mario Galaxy, or swinging a sword in Twilight Princess. These moves could easily be triggered by a button press, if only there were an option to do so.And if you look beyond Nintendo games, you’ll find that gaming is more accessible than ever, as game makers have figured out how to make them work with different disabilities.The addition of symbols in the color-swapping puzzler Hue make the game playable even for people who are color-blind. Fortnite helps people who have trouble hearing with an option that translates the sounds of footsteps and gunshots into visual indicators. Both PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, the two major rivals to the Nintendo Switch, let you change which buttons do what across the entire console.Best of all is Microsoft’s new Adaptive Controller for Xbox One and the PC. This cool bit of customizable equipment can clamp onto wheelchairs and hook up to all manner of accessible inputs like foot controllers, one-handed joysticks, and easy-to-press switches.But while the controller can even work on PlayStation consoles and Macs (with the right adapters), “the only place it does not work is with any Nintendo consoles,” said Steven Spohn, chief operating officer at AbleGamers, a charity that advocates for gamers with disabilities.Spohn worked with Microsoft on its Adaptive Controller but said Nintendo has “repeatedly declined to work with us.”“It breaks my heart every time someone with a disability emails me excitedly, claiming they are getting a Nintendo Switch, and they want to know how to make it accessible, because nine times out of 10, we can’t make it any more accessible,” he said.Nintendo has offered some good accessibility options in certain games. Beat ’em up ARMS lets you completely customize the game’s controls. Colorful shooter Splatoon 2 is considerate of color-blind gamers. 1–2 Switch’s hyperdetailed rumble feedback makes it playable for gamers who are blind. Back in the 1980s, the company even came up with a bizarre-looking hands-free controller that made the NES playable for gamers who are quadriplegic.But overall, in 2018, Nintendo is lagging far behind other gaming companies that haven’t had to leave gamers with disabilities behind in the pursuit of innovation and hardware gimmickry. If Nintendo truly believes in its mission to make gaming more accessible to everyone, it needs to work much harder.In a marginally better anticlimax than most M. Night Shyamalan plot twists, reports indicate that Amazon has decided to split its HQ2 between Long Island City, New York, and Arlington, Virginia. Mercifully, Amazon’s grand quest to use the starry-eyed idealism of mid-market politicians as a tax-evasion bargaining chip against NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio and Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam is finally over. New York is getting 25,000 more sweaty bodies on the rush hour 7 train while Arlington will have lunchtime lines at Sweetgreen that stretch into the Pentagon parking lot.Overall, the HQ2 hoopla was a brilliantly executed PR stunt that was created to keep Amazon constantly at the top of American consumers’ minds in a narrative that it squarely controls. HQ2 provided Amazon with millions of dollars of free earned media and a cover for everything from its warehouse workers peeing in bottles to a precipitously quiet 20 percent decline in its stock price. Along the way, it taught us a lot about the paradox of effectively reporting on and talking about Amazon.As the world’s largest online retailer, the current No. 3 media company in the U.S., a dominant force in cloud computing, and the single-largest corporate influence on the U.S. economy, nearly everything that Amazon does or says is “news.” But staying focused on which of Amazon’s announcements are actually newsworthy and deserving of analysis while Amazon continues dropping flying drone warehouse red herrings is near impossible.South Africa’s premier investigative journalism outfit calls itself AmaBhungane, Zulu for “dung beetles,” in a proud acknowledgment that the literal function of media is to sift through shit so that the rest of us don’t have to. Thus, the more shit you throw at journalists, the tougher the job becomes. And, arguably, no American entity outside of the White House creates more news than Amazon.On the same day that Amazon’s double HQ2 was leaked (and one day before the most important midterm election of our lifetime), the company announced free shipping during the holidays, introduced a program to hire its own drivers, and said that it would no longer host booksellers from South Korea, Hungary, and other nations. Good luck trying to analyze any of those things in-depth for a story on deadline. Thinning newsrooms lack the resources to dig every signal, so they’re forced to publish a hell of a lot of unfiltered noise.For example, the grapevine chatter last month that Amazon was “considering” opening 3,000 Go stores spurred weeks of speculation about Amazon’s impending invasion of brick-and-mortar retail stores from nearly every major American media outlet. But here’s the rub: Every company is “considering” doing anything at any given time. Faux announcements like this create an anti-competitive advantage for Amazon by taking real value out of companies. Whether or not Amazon explicitly intends to, the company blatantly manipulates the market simply by issuing press releases, and reporters are willing participants.The risk here is that when Amazon sneezes, the entire retail sector catches tuberculosis. Stitch Fix’s stock slid 20 percent upon the announcement of Amazon Scout, a service that is initially focused on home design and that, in its current iteration, actually presents no discernible threat to Stitch Fix’s business model. As any Amazon action produces an equal and opposite reaction, covering unsubstantiated Amazon rumors is dangerous business.There’s also a tendency in media to overestimate the magnitude of any statistic that has to do with Amazon. A figure like 3,000 convenience stores sounds like a paradigm-shifting amount until you consider that 7-Eleven has 11,000 stores in Thailand alone. Consistently, Amazon’s market capitalization is erroneously conflated with GDP (the correct framework would be to compare Amazon’s revenue with GDP), creating an archive of incorrect assertions that Amazon is more valuable than the aforementioned Thailand. Ultimately, this contributes to a self-fulfilling prophecy. Because Amazon is so big, any tactical action it takes is immediately declared to be game-changing. The flood of (often superficial) media coverage then takes off, essentially providing a windfall of free marketing for the everything store.As many of Amazon’s big-tech compatriots come under increased scrutiny, Amazon has a key trump card that keeps the public sentiment largely in its favor. CEO Jeff Bezos is a brilliant writer and a maestro of a storyteller, capable of seducing the tech media with his prose. You can learn more about the fundamentals of business by reading a single Amazon letter to shareholders than you do in most MBA programs. As a result, these letters are religiously quoted verbatim by reporters, allowing Bezos to directly define how his company is portrayed in the media.Combine the scale of news created by Amazon, the dearth of reporters covering retail markets, and a CEO who is the biggest walking sound bite since Yogi Berra, and you have a company whose control of its public perception is unprecedented. And as a company that can bend the global economy to its will, Amazon should be subject to far more in-depth investigation and scrutiny. The grand strategy that Bezos chooses to pursue will largely set the agenda on Wall Street and Main Street and may well impose more tangible effects on many Americans than what happens at the polls.Going beyond the scattershot headlines, here are the five Amazon stories that are really worth following, each with existential consequences for the U.S. economy and society.At its core, Amazon is simply a search engine with a gargantuan fulfillment center attached to it. While the exact number varies depending on the survey, nearly every major U.S. media outlet has gone on record stating that 50 to 55 percent of product searches begin on Amazon. The subtext is that Amazon, amid its myriad other competitive advantages, has displaced Google as the world’s most valuable search engine.However, the studies that support Amazon’s dominance in product searches omit a key detail: Not all product searches are created equal. Amazon currently owns transactional searches but has struggled to displace Google when consumers are still researching what they want to buy. (But don’t expect Amazon to live with that status quo for much longer.)In understanding who will win the future of commerce,no single metric is more important than the genesis of product search. In Forbes, former Target executive Chris Walton says that product searches will be the “leading indicators that will predict who will thrive in the new era of retail. First product search trends, not quarterly store or digital sales performance, over time, will better highlight true staying power.”Longer term, Google has an existential decision to make: Should it continue to be the conduit for other retailers to compete against Amazon, or should it invest heavily in transforming its business to become an e-commerce fulfillment engine of its own? While there are strong arguments for each, Google so far has focused on the former, a win for Fortune 500 retailers and small e-commerce shops alike. But with billions in cash on hand, Google is just an Instacart or Shopify acquisition away from rapidly altering the paradigm of e-commerce and taking on Amazon more aggressively.More than any other head-to-head clash among tech titans, the battle for product search supremacy will have far-reaching implications across how Americans spend their money. Buckle up for the great search wars to come.The reason Apple became the first company with a trillion-dollar valuation is painstakingly simple; they owned the millennium’s first trillion-dollar innovation. And Amazon is best positioned to own the next.Reports that only 2 percent of customers had made a purchase via Alexa have caused the market to sleep on the pending revolution in how we interact with our devices. At its essence, voice is a more natural medium for humans than typing, particularly on a five-inch interface, which is a learned action. The iPhone essentially has reprogrammed human behavior, driving trillions of dollars in market shifts in the process. Voice can take us back to a more natural state and cause similarly seismic shifts.The caveat is that unlike Apple and the iPhone, Amazon doesn’t have to wait for the traditional adoption curve; it can force the issue by subtly inserting voice technology into our daily lives. Amazon is beginning to embed Alexa into everyday devices, starting with the prodigal microwave. While many consumers have chosen not to invite Alexa into their homes, they may now do so unknowingly when they use Amazon to buy a simple household appliance. Across the U.S., 13 million microwaves are sold every year—a bounty of opportunity for Big Brother.Think again about product searches. In 10 years, the dominant medium for them will be instructing your Alexa or Google Home, “Buy me the best headphones for running.” In response, your device will output a highly curated result full of expert recommendations, consumer reviews, and the most competitive price. While it’s hardly the aesthetic or tactile experience that many love about shopping, voice commands could set a new standard for convenience. Without the visual interface to shop around and compare prices, the voice medium is inherently susceptible to dominance by one platform.Whether that platform is one that directly sells you goods (Amazon) or directs you to other merchants (Google) will determine the overall competitiveness of the retail ecosystem of the 2020s.By the end of the year, Amazon will have brought in $10 billion in annual advertising revenue. For context, the (thriving) New York Times makes about $200 million per year off digital ads, meaning that the retailer makes 50 times as much money selling ads as our nation’s premier newspaper.But with its advertising business, Amazon is collecting something far more valuable than just immediate cash payoff: data. The moment brands choose to sell on the Amazon marketplace, they begin handing Amazon the blueprint for how to put them out of business. Listing products on Amazon leads to a plethora of information on exactly what sells, and paying Amazon to sponsor a given product tosses kerosene on the data inferno.For example, Levi’s is one of many iconic brands aggressively ramping up its spending on Amazon. But will Americans still value Levi’s 150 years of brand equity when Amazon launches its own label of blue jeans that also make your butt look great and cost half the price? The $64,000 question is how Amazon will choose to use all this data. Will they try to move us toward a brandless society, building hundreds of thousands of AmazonBasics and Amazon Essentials? Or will Amazon decide that its long-term best interest is not to displace too many of the merchants that sell products on its platform?Despite the deluge of merchandising data it is collecting, Amazon’s ardent embrace of advertising looks a bit murky amid its overall grand strategy. It’s the classic platform play—once you control consumer attention, monetize it by any means possible. Put another way, by being obsessively customer-centric for two decades, Amazon can now sacrifice UX for new buckets of money because it’s too powerful to stop.About 17 percent of search results presented to the user on Amazon are sponsored by the brand, allowing the company to directly monetize one in six products shown to shoppers on its website. For comparison, roughly 1 to 2 percent of search results on Target, Walmart, and other large multi-brand retailers are sponsored. While this strategy adds high-margin revenue for Amazon, it is billion-dollar wise and trillion-dollar foolish. Amazon made it this far by relentlessly focusing on customers and pursuing long-term customer-centricity over short-term profit opportunity. A feed in which one in five products is an ad is a direct rebuke of that ethos.In the next decade, Amazon will transform online media by displacing Facebook as the primary aggregator of content. Amazon already has such an affinity for content that in the early 2000s, the company was paying writers to create reviews of products it didn’t even carry yet, realizing that investing in quality content would make the website a destination. In a nutshell, an e-commerce company conceptually saw the power in hosting content online before media companies did.In a similar vein, 65 percent of all affiliate links on outlets such as Wirecutter, CNET, Best Products, and BuzzFeed direct to Amazon. These are relationships that Amazon has cultivated since the genesis of these sites that effectively turn prestigious publishers into content marketers for our largest retailer. But Amazon won’t stop there. It’s only a matter of time before Amazon cuts out the middleman (Google) and decides to host publisher content about products directly on its platform. Doing so would make Amazon’s search experience far more compelling while also providing additional revenue for commerce publishers. Some publications will hold out on tying their fate to another large technology platform, but the vast majority will welcome the additional distribution.And if Amazon succeeds at hosting commerce content on its platform, why not take a crack at hosting all publisher content on Amazon? While its traffic is dwarfed by Facebook, Amazon receives more monthly visits than the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, and CNN combined. Right now, a few companies’ algorithms pick and choose exactly what consumers see, and they’re frankly doing an awful job of it. Why shouldn’t Bezos think he can do better? Five years ago, he bought a venerable newspaper that had just laid off more than 40 reporters. This week, that same paper announced 13 new reporting roles, including perhaps the most ironic job in the U.S.From a content-serving perspective, Amazon has already built the most sophisticated recommendation algorithms for commerce—IP that can be repurposed for content personalization. First teased by Nicholas Negroponte in the mid-1980s, the personalized newspaper is an idea that bubbles up as a possible savior of journalism every five years or so only to crash spectacularly. But despite its repeated failures in practice, the concept has unrealized commercial appeal if done correctly. Bytedance, a company best known for building a news aggregator and content personalization engine, is valued at $75 billion, making it the most valuable startup in the world.From a monetization perspective, pivoting to subscriptions is the name of the game in media, and Amazon is already running a successful subscription business. If anyone can convince you to pay for news, it is probably Amazon. Or it could choose to make any local newspaper free for Prime members, absorbing the losses as a pure philanthropic service to democracy. Making $1 million in profit every hour affords a lot of creative flexibility. Imagine it’s 2025, and folding local news into Amazon Prime has become the lifeline that bailed out hundreds of daily newspapers.If this all sounds hyperbolic and apocalyptic, it is. But benevolent billionaires may prove to be the best of so many bad options for supporting local and investigative journalism. No billionaire is better equipped to pick up the mantle than the man who redefined publishing, saved the Washington Post, and has generally mastered any business built around the art of the written word.It’s not every day that a paper somebody wrote in law school earns them cult-hero status. Yet, that’s precisely what happened when Lina Khan published “Amazon’s Antitrust Paradox” in the Yale Law Journal, earning her a profile in the New York Times and sending off a wave of salon chatter about the peril of modern monopolies.However, despite the rise of “hipster antitrust,” there is still no real political groundswell that Bezos should lose sleep over. Believing that Amazon should be checked with antitrust has yet to cross from Silicon Valley intelligentsia to mainstream zeitgeist. For all the compelling arguments about Amazon’s market power, nobody has yet answered a simple question: How the hell do you break up a firm that most consumers love? Just this week, Amazon effectively made Santa Claus real by announcing free delivery for holiday shoppers. That this ultimately falls on the backs of mail and delivery people, making their job hellish, is still of little concern to most shoppers.In the most significant midterm election in decades, there isn’t a single political hopeful making antitrust a core tenet of their platform. Rather than creating political pressure from both sides, the ideological alignment between Donald Trump and liberals on this has created an uneasy gridlock that makes it hard to fathom any meaningful action being taken against Amazon under the current administration.In time, this will change. When Sears ruled the retail world, the entire Sears workforce reaped the bounty of its success, greatly bolstering the middle class. The Amazon era, however, has mostly enriched an exclusive club of executives and institutional shareholders. I may be insanely naïve, but I think the political scene will normalize a bit after 2020, and someone (likely unknown to the American public at the moment) will rise on the left to combine modern progressivism with old-school Democratic flair. Imagine the personification of Bruce Springsteen’s Wrecking Ball album combining shameless support for unions with marked disdain for uber-wealth. Breaking up big tech on behalf of workers—more so than for consumers—would be an anchor point of this platform.There are signs that Amazon can no longer control its own shadow. Last month, the retailer increased its minimum wage to $15, a move widely regarded as a net benefit to society. But it comes with massive externalities and unanswered questions. What happens to the fabric of a city when it’s suddenly more lucrative to be an Amazon warehouse worker than a paramedic? Expect questions like this to enter the mainstream as Amazon swallows more and more of the country’s enterprise and becomes one of the defining political stories of the next decade.Add all this up, and there really is only one Amazon story. Amazon is a company beyond the reach of the invisible hand, unthreatened by people who buy their ink by the barrel, and is no longer held accountable to the public. Amazon is the consummate triumph of U.S. capitalism, ultimately bound to become the case study for the danger of the system’s unchecked excess.Our health is a combination of genetics and environment. Maybe someone’s genes make them vulnerable to high blood pressure, for example, but by watching what they eat — in effect, controlling their body’s environment — they can keep their numbers within normal levels.Right now, we know a lot about the genetics side of this combination, as an explosion of research has yielded incredible detail about people’s genetic profiles. We also have insight into how our internal bacterial environments — the microbiome — impact our health. But the environmental piece of the puzzle is still fuzzy. We don’t measure all the chemicals we encounter each day, from the microscopic fungi on a walk to the car exhaust on a highway.That is, most people don’t.Michael Snyder, a Stanford biologist and pioneer in genomics, does. For the past several years, Snyder has been wearing a device he invented that measures the environment around him. It’s part of his quest to learn how the environment impacts our health by studying what he calls people’s “exposomes,” or the various air particles, pollutants, viruses, and more that we come into contact with each day.In a recent paper in the journal Cell, Snyder and his colleagues describe what they’ve learned from affixing 15 people with these air-monitoring devices for up to 890 days. Each device is about the size of a big matchbox, and contains filters that trap particulates, chemicals, and microbes from the air around it. Medium talked to Snyder about the study, the exposome, and his own self-monitoring discoveries.Michael Snyder: Yes. The monitoring started when I was doing genome sequencing and other profiles — like gene expression — on myself, 8 years ago. I was using myself as a test subject to get the technology going — I didn’t know I’d be interesting! Then I got diabetes. My genome predicted it, and I got the disease over the course of this profiling. These types of measurements helped me catch the onset of the disease and gave a much more detailed picture of people’s health.With these techniques — like regular testing of blood for changes in gene expression and other readouts — we’re following a group of 109 folks now, many of them for four-and-a-half years or longer. We added wearables about five years ago to continuously monitor physiology, things like heart rate and blood oxygen levels. It helped me figure out when I got Lyme disease, actually. I was with my brother in rural Massachusetts putting up fences, and two weeks later I flew to Norway. When you fly, your blood oxygen levels will drop, but they usually recover after you land. Mine didn’t. And my heart rate was abnormally high. I got a low-grade fever and went to a doctor, who told me I had a bacterial infection. I told him I thought it was Lyme. He recommended penicillin, but I said I think I need doxycycline, which is what you take for Lyme. I measured myself when I got home, and sure enough, I was Lyme positive. It was a perfectly controlled experiment, because I’d given blood before I left and I was negative then.We want to bring big data into health; that’s the motivation. I think the way we do medicine now is very primitive, compared to what it could be. Everybody is focused on disease, but we want to focus on health and transitions to disease. We’ve written algorithms based on the data we’ve collected, and we now think we tell can when you get sick before you realize it, because your heart rate goes up. We’ve shown that on myself and three other people. We’re now trying to set up a 1,000-person study to learn more.That area has been a big hole. We know you’re affected by your genes and your environment, but nobody is capturing the environment individually. Nobody carries around something on their sleeve to monitor their exposure.We took a standard high-end air monitor and re-engineered it. The monitor has a pump that sucks up about one-fifteenth of the air you breathe. We put a submicron filter on the monitor to collect all the particulates in the air. Under that we have a cartridge with a chemical absorbent. We take that filter and elute off the particulates, and sequence, incredibly deeply, the DNA and RNA that’s there. Then we match it up against a custom database with 40,000 species of microorganisms, viruses, plants, and animals. We can see exactly what you’re getting exposed to from the biological side. Then from the chemical absorbent, we elute that off and run it through a mass spectrometer. We see all the chemical structures.The study has just over two years of data on the biologicals; the chemicals we did for only a few months, but nonetheless we learned a ton.The first thing we learned is the exposome is vast. There were more than 2,000 species, from bacteria to my pet guinea pig, registered during my own two years of profiling. Even the guy or gal who wore it for three months for the study was exposed to over 1,000 species. There were close to 3,000 chemical features detected in the whole study.Second is that the exposome is dynamic. It varies a lot. How much of the variation is regional or seasonal? For the part we could figure out, location is the number one factor, especially for the chemicals. The time of year is another important factor. We sampled four people living in the Bay Area — me, and people in Sunnyvale, Redwood City, and San Francisco. We profiled them over the same month, and everybody’s different. The person in San Francisco had sewer sludge bacteria in their samples; there are definitely parts of San Francisco that don’t smell so good. Every time I go to Monterey, I get a fungal exposure. Location really matters.DEET is everywhere, which surprised me; it was in all the samples. There’s a few carcinogens, like the solvent diethylene glycol. A limitation of our study is we don’t know the absolute amounts of exposures; we know relative amounts. That’s something we are working on to pin down. This was really just a survey to see generally what we are exposed to.Right, that was interesting. Pyridine is a nasty chemical. But you can argue this certain ways. If you are very allergic to fungi, which some people are, maybe for them it’s good to have pyridine, although that is a different potentially detrimental exposure.This is not in the paper, but there’s some correlation with health. We’re still trying to sort this all out.Your eosinophils — a type of white blood cell — are actually a measure of allergic response. We can correlate my eosinophils with what exposures are out there. I thought I was probably most allergic to pine, but the correlation was actually better with eucalyptus. One in five Americans has allergies or asthma. It’s useful to know what triggers this.In California, I’m in eucalyptus heaven! I’m not going to cut down a eucalyptus tree, although if a tree ever had to go in my yard that would be the first one to go. Chemical exposures you could try to track and get rid of.We’re going to get these devices on more people — we will try to get inexpensive devices — just to get this out there so lots of people can do this. Ultimately, we have to take samples and analyze them offline. That will be true for a while. But once we figure out what might be most impactful on people’s health, then we’ll try to set up real-time personal monitors for those things.I would argue this is the first map of the human exposome, like the first genome map. We see what’s there, and then we try to understand how it affects your health. As we get more devices out, we will be able to make more associations between allergies and exposures. It would take long-term monitoring to understand the effects of toxins. But I do think we need that data.Finding treatments for Alzheimer’s disease is simultaneously one of the most pressing and difficult tasks in medicine today. Between 2000 and 2015, the number of deaths resulting from Alzheimer’s has shot up by 123 percent. Today, around one in 10 people over age 65 have the disease. The drugs available for Alzheimer’s aim to ease symptoms of the disease, but they cannot slow or reverse its progression. The last time a new medication was approved for Alzheimer’s was 15 years ago.Over the course of Alzheimer’s progression, sticky deposits of protein structures called plaques and tangles build up in the brain and damage and kill nerve cells. Proteins called amyloid-β and tau comprise these plaques and tangles and function improperly in Alzheimer’s sufferers. Drugs to combat Alzheimer’s often try to target these proteins.But in recent years, Alzheimer’s drugs in clinical testing have largely failed to produce adequate results. There are, however, a handful of promising options still in the running. David Geldmacher, a neurologist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, is working on a phase three clinical trial of a drug called aducanumab, which is sponsored by the biotech company Biogen. Medium spoke to Geldmacher about the challenges of drug discovery for Alzheimer’s disease and what keeps him optimistic for the future.David Geldmacher: One of the biggest issues in coming up with effective therapies for Alzheimer’s disease is that we really don’t know critical elements [underlying] the mechanism [of the disease] in most people with the illness.We know 1 or 2 percent of Alzheimer’s cases are clearly inherited. We tend to see, in those individuals, that the illness begins in the mid-forties. Because those mechanisms are so easily understood in the genetically determined cases, that’s what we’ve been able to use in animal models.A lot of work in Alzheimer’s disease is based in animal models with these human genes that cause Alzheimer’s. And things that worked well in animals have not turned out to work well in people. What we have learned, however, is that the process of Alzheimer’s disease begins in the brain years, probably decades, before the first symptoms emerge. In many cases, we’ve been trying to treat the illness too late in its course.What we’ve done in this particular study is use an antibody that has a slightly different configuration that targets a different part of the amyloid [compound] than some of the past treatments have targeted. But, more importantly, we are focusing on the disease very early on, when people have only mild cognitive symptoms. That means there has been less overall damage to the brain, and there’s a greater opportunity to prevent further cell death or rescue cells that have been made sick by the amyloid but not killed by them.The study is underway, so there are no findings that are reportable at this point. In a prior study, which was reported in Nature in 2016, the aducanumab antibody showed that it could clearly reduce the amount of amyloid plaques in the brains of people with Alzheimer’s disease. PET scans were done before treatment was administered and then at the end of treatment. People who received the aducanumab had a reduction in the amyloid burden in their brain. People who received the placebo during the same trial actually had an increased amyloid burden.This demonstrated that the agent is biologically active on the target we want it to be active on. The other thing noted in that trial was that patients on the highest dose of the medication showed some slowing of the progression of illness. This is one of the first studies where that’s been so clearly evident.Interestingly, at six months into the study, the doses did not distinguish themselves, so treatment was not clearly different from placebo. But at 12 months, the difference emerged. That tells us that the process by which the antibody is effective is a gradual one.That’s correct. One of the phrases we use in the field to characterize this type of treatment is a disease-modifying treatment rather than a symptom-modifying treatment. Since the disease is a chronic condition, we would have to assume that it’s going to require ongoing longer-term therapy. We don’t know whether that means lifelong or not. That’s research that still needs to be conducted.The biological agents, like aducanumab and BAN2401 [another molecule under development by Biogen], allow us to see proof of concept. They allow us to see that perhaps removing amyloid from the brain or preventing its accumulation is a valid approach. The next step would be to come up with a more easily produced, more easily administered, less expensive means of doing the same thing. So I view the biological situation as not necessarily the long-term solution for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease, but as opening the door to what future successes might look like.There is a whole second line of antibody therapies for Alzheimer’s that aren’t targeting the amyloid-β protein; rather, they’re targeting the tau protein, which is a critical factor in the neurofibrillary tangle. Several companies are working on anti-tau antibody therapies. Those are very early in development, but if they are successful, they may also open the doors.The market for Alzheimer’s therapies is huge, both in the United States and worldwide. So there’s an opportunity for big pharma companies to develop a very large treatment base, especially for treatments that might be more along the lines of prevention rather than intervention.There’s still a very active community of researchers pursuing new treatments, or more effective ones, for Alzheimer’s disease. Nonetheless, I do feel a great sense of responsibility. If you think about specialists like myself — people who focus on cognitive disorders or degenerative disorders — there are very few of us relative to, say, Parkinson’s specialists or multiple sclerosis specialists.So there is a lot of responsibility in trying to come up with therapeutics for an illness like Alzheimer’s, especially since the projections are that it’s going to dramatically increase in numbers over the course of the next 20 to 30 years. Epidemiological studies suggest that between 2000 and 2050, the number of Alzheimer’s cases in the United States is going to triple, approaching 15 to 20 million people with the illness. Life expectancy has also been progressively increasing, and since Alzheimer’s disease is an age-related disease, the more older people you have, the more cases of Alzheimer’s disease you’re going to experience.She wants to garden, she has studied the concept of love, and she dreams of pizza. BINA48, as you might guess from her name, is not a human, but a robot. There’s something else that makes BINA48 truly distinct, and it has nothing to do with her predilections for human ephemera. Of the small collection of robo-celebrities making the late-night talk show rounds, BINA48 is the only black-presenting one of the bunch. And as social robots continue to creep into the mainstream, her presence isn’t just increasingly necessary — it’s potentially the linchpin to the development of a more diverse society of robots.Creating the world’s first and only black humanoid robot was not the impetus for BINA48’s inception. A bodyless bust with a lifelike head and shoulders, BINA48 was manufactured by Hanson Robotics and is owned and operated by the Terasem Movement Foundation, an organization researching the possibility of uploading one’s likeness onto “consciousness software” for afterlife preservation. Designed as a research project, BINA48 gets her personality, appearance, and namesake from Bina Rothblatt, a real human and co-founder of the Terasem Movement, who uploaded hundreds of hours’ worth of her memories, thoughts, and beliefs to give BINA48 her foundation. In other words, the robot’s skin color was happenstance.“The reason BINA48 ended up being African-American is that she’s based on an African-American woman,” says Bruce Duncan, managing director of Terasem. “We were not actually trying to make BINA48 a spokesperson for all black people.”Regardless, BINA48 has become an emblem of the issue of representation in A.I., opening up the question of who will be replicated in robot form, and why?It is well-documented that A.I. programs of all stripes inherit the gender and racial biases of their creators on an algorithmic level, turning well-meaning machines into accidental agents of discrimination. But it turns out we also inflict our biases onto robots. A recent study led by Christoph Bartneck, a professor at the Human Interface Technology Lab at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand, found that not only are the majority of home robots designed with white plastic, but we also actually have a bias against the ones that are coated in black plastic. The findings were based on a shooter bias test, in which participants were asked to perceive threat level based on a split-second image of various black and white people, with robots thrown into the mix. Black robots that posed no threat were shot more than white ones.“The only thing that would motivate their bias [against the robots] would be that they would have transferred their already existing racial bias to, let’s say, African-Americans, onto the robots,” Bartneck told Medium. “That’s the only plausible explanation.”These types of biases also turn up when it comes to gender. In Singapore, a study of 198 young adults found that respondents felt more comfortable with the idea of a security robot gendered male and a housecleaning robot gendered female. And already, our widespread A.I. assistants, like Siri and Alexa, have been given female personas.Social robots like BINA48, which are designed to one day be our companions and helpers, are not only typically female but also tend to reinforce gender and racial stereotypes: Sophia — arguably the most famous social robot — was designed with the “classic beauty” of Audrey Hepburn in mind, according to her creators at Hanson Robots; Erica, a Japanese robot created by Hiroshi Ishiguro Laboratories, has been called “the most beautiful robot in the world” and sports a doll-like physique and style; and Jia Jia, developed at the University of Science and Technology of China, was inspired by an old story about a fairy who surprises her master with a clean home and hot meals. Jia Jia is also dressed in Han-style clothing, a growing fashion movement in China based on nationalist ideologies.Unlike Sophia, Erica and Jia Jia are not white, but they still conform to their culture’s majority race. And though a reality where social robots act as our daily companions is far off, Bartneck argues that if the field doesn’t incorporate diversity now, it will suffer the same issues that established industries are currently struggling to correct.“We see ourselves in these robots,” he says.BINA48 is leading the charge in this regard, and she is joined by a few other rebel robots. Alter, developed by roboticists Hiroshi Ishiguro and Takashi Ikegami of Japan, appears to be gender neutral, with a silicone face and arms and exposed body. Unlike Ishiguro’s other robots (including Erica), Alter was designed with a minimal humanistic appearance and persona in order to focus on the movement of its mechanical body. Then there’s Matsuko-roid, Japan’s cross-dressing TV show host robot based on human TV personality Matsuko Deluxe.Like BINA48, the elements that make Alter and Matsuko-roid diverse and unique were not the elements that drove their creation. Instead, their gender-nonconforming personas were happenstance, much like the racial biases built into Google’s image-recognition algorithm that identified African-Americans as “gorillas” were happenstance. And that’s the problem: In the absence of a conscious decision to fight bias, bias creeps in.“Instead of leaving this to some sort of randomness, why don’t you just take control and steer it in the right direction?” Bartneck says. “That is a responsibility that robotic developers have to pick up and work on.”Though BINA48 was never meant to be a spokesperson for identity politics, her creators are embracing the fact that she has become just that. The android started her digital life knowing very little of the racial history she inadvertently found herself in. (When asked by artist and activist Stephanie Dinkins, who is working on a project stemming from her conversations with BINA48, if she had experienced racism, BINA48 somewhat nonsensically replied, “I actually didn’t have it.”) Now, however, the real Bina is uploading more information about her history as a black woman onto BINA48, and Duncan, the managing director at Terasem, is working with Dinkins and prominent black celebrities, including Whoopi Goldberg and Morgan Freeman, to support the development of her identity.“When we’re building the architecture of our A.I. future, this is the time to make sure it’s healthy and representative and diverse,” Duncan says. “Not representing the diversity that we are as a species is like saving only four plants out of a rainforest. We’re doing a huge injustice to our own health and well-being if we don’t try to preserve the diversity in the world around us.”Going to Mars will change us — and not just in a touchy-feely, metaphysical way.Over time, we should expect a fair bit of evolutionary divergence between Mars settlers and the human population on Earth, according to Rice University biologist Scott Solomon, who examined this possibility in his 2016 book Future Humans: Inside the Science of Our Continuing Evolution. That divergence will start unspooling at the outset, thanks to something called “the founder effect.” No matter how or when it happens, the Red Planet will be settled by a relatively small group of people who are not perfectly representative of the entire human population. For example, it’s a pretty safe bet that Mars pioneers will be atypically adventurous and risk-tolerant. That means, Muskton — the odds are decent that the first Red Planet burg will be named after SpaceX’s CEO — will likely feature more rock-climbing gyms and bordellos per capita than cities here on Earth.And those initial differences will snowball, because Mars and Earth are very different worlds. The Red Planet is much smaller; the force of gravity on its surface is just 38 percent of the pull we feel here on Earth. Mars also lacks a global magnetic field, a thick atmosphere (though we could remedy that with terraforming), and a protective ozone layer. Mars gets hammered a lot harder than we do by space radiation — UV light and charged particles from the sun, as well as super-energetic cosmic rays zooming in from outside the solar system.This damaging radiation could cause higher mutation rates in the DNA of Mars settlers, Solomon said. Mutations increase genetic variability, so evolution may proceed faster on the Red Planet than it does here on Earth. What sorts of changes could we see over there? Well, for one thing, natural selection might adjust skin tone on the Red Planet, to help settlers cope with that serious radiation load. (Even if they live in modified caves or lava tubes, as seems likely, the pioneers will still have to spend some time on the surface to tend to their crops and attend spring equinox chili cook-offs, for example.) This may lead to dark skin due to increased production of melanin, just as we see among some peoples here on Earth. But other pigments could potentially be pressed into service as well, including carotenoids, the molecules that give real carrots — as opposed to those purple artisanal weirdos — their color, according to Solomon.Mars settlers may also eventually sport thicker bones than their ancestors, Solomon said. That’s because, as research on astronauts in low-Earth orbit has shown, bones become less dense and more brittle in low-gravity conditions. So, Red Planet pioneers with abnormally stout skeletons may do abnormally well, throwing down monster dunk after monster dunk in games of Marsketball while their owned opponents roll around in the dirt clutching their broken femurs and moaning. And Marsketball would be awesome, by the way. If you kept the hoop at the standard 10 feet, all but the most sessile among us could dunk, since you can jump about 2.5 times higher on Mars than you can here on Earth.And Martian colonists may not be plagued by plagues. The long cruise to the Red Planet could serve as a quarantine, keeping nasty germs from getting a foothold in the settlement, according to Solomon. Muskton probably wouldn’t have to worry about the next Ebola or West Nile emerging from the Martian wilds, which appear to be free of viruses and bacteria, let alone any chimps, birds, mosquitoes, or bats to incubate or transmit them. So, if the settlers left their mammal friends at home — the ones we like to eat, as well as the ones whose bellies we like to rub and ears we like to tousle — they could conceivably banish infectious disease to the memory hole. (The pioneers could go vegan, or eat bugs rather than cows and pigs. Insects are much further removed from us evolutionarily and therefore less likely to pass pathogens.) The settlers’ immune systems might then wither like a snipped umbilical cord, eventually atrophying into vestigiality: White blood cells could be the new tailbones.“If that were to happen, if, somehow, a disease were to be introduced to Mars, it would be completely devastating,” Solomon said. “That would set up a situation where any contact between Earth and Mars would be extremely dangerous. Steps might have to be taken to basically eliminate any chance of having contact. Even if there are shipments going back and forth, even if there are people going from Earth to Mars, perhaps they don’t ever come into contact with one another.”This scenario would lead to a cessation of gene flow between Earth humans and Mars humans, and speciation could soon follow.How soon?“I hate to ever put numbers on it, because it’s still such a speculative scenario,” Solomon said. “But you’d be talking about at least several hundred to, possibly, several thousand generations.”This putative outcome doesn’t seem to jibe with our experiences here on Earth, where small bands of pioneers have repeatedly settled new lands without ever diverging into new species of hominid. For example, Native Americans and aboriginal Australians remain in the Homo sapiens fold despite having lived in relative isolation on their newfound continents for about 15,000 and 50,000 years, respectively. But we can take this comparison only so far: North America and Australia are still part of familiar, old Earth, so the environment wasn’t pushing those long-ago explorers to diverge nearly as powerfully as harsh, weird Mars will.Solomon cautioned that nobody can predict how evolution will proceed in the future. Indeed, some folks have a different take on our relationship with those future inhabitants of Muskton. For example, Mars Society president Robert Zubrin thinks the settlers will develop one or more unique Martian cultures but will not radiate into a new species; they’ll just be too close to Earth, with too much contact. He does think this will happen with interstellar settlers, however, partly because of the inevitable cultural differences that will arise.“We’re going to have the power, in principle, to control our evolution, to genetically engineer and influence our children,” Zubrin said. “If we have established ourselves in new star systems, in some places, people will probably say, ‘That’s a great idea; let’s do that.’ In others, they’ll say, ‘Oh, that’s immoral. We should not do that.’ So, whether they do it or don’t do it, it’s going to cause divergence.”Such divergence, he said, could lead to a Star Trek–like panoply of humanoids that differ from each other in just a few trifling respects, such as the color and scaliness of their skin or the number and size of the bumpy ridges on their foreheads. You know, whatever look becomes fashionable on those deep-space outposts, so far from the dominant, original culture and its homogenization machine. Hopefully hipster, skinny jeans won’t make it all the way out to GJ 273b.Of course, the lack of gene mixing among colonists and their forebears on Earth would be an even bigger factor in our species’ interstellar radiation — if there are still any genes around to be mixed. We may have advanced to cyborg/sublimated consciousness form by the time we start moving out among the stars.I have a huge pimple on my cheek when I try Olay’s skin analysis app, Skin Advisor. The app directs me to take a selfie and answer a few questions, like what worries me most about my skin — wrinkles or acne, for example — and what kinds of products I use on a daily basis.I’m prepared for the obvious news: I’m having a breakout. But within a few seconds, the app alerts me to an issue I didn’t know I had. According to Skin Advisor, my problem area is around my mouth, likely because of my smile lines, and I’m directed to buy a $22 anti-aging cream.This is curious, since TroveSkin, the Indonesia-based artificial intelligence app I tried before this one, analyzed my selfie and concluded that my biggest skin problem was texture, and that I should be using exfoliating, anti-aging, and brightening products.Skin Advisor and TroveSkin are two of about a dozen apps from startups and veteran skin care companies that use artificial intelligence (A.I.) to spot your skin woes, provide personalized product recommendations, and track your skin over time. In 2018, Neutrogena released a device and app package called Skin360, which uses a magnifying lens attached to your smartphone to deliver product suggestions. Startup Proven recently launched a personalized skin care line that draws from medical journals and reviews to suggest products based on your responses to an online assessment.The global cosmetics market is estimated to grow to $805 billion by 2023, with skin care accounting for the largest share. Between drugstores, online retailers, and beauty stores, it’s hard to know what you really need or want. Do I have blackheads or redness? Should I try to brighten my skin or start an anti-aging regimen? How do I make my skin look “dewy,” whatever that means? Hyperpersonalization using A.I.-driven technology has caught on in consumer products (think Google Home, Netflix, and smartphone facial recognition), so it makes sense that businesses see customizing your skin care routine as a logical application.Diana de la Iglesia Jiménez, an A.I. and computer engineering expert at the Bioinformatics Unit of the Spanish National Cancer Research Centre, a public research center, says the technology used in skin care apps is the same machine-learning technology used in other industries. “They collect data about you and predict your current needs or the potential features of your ‘ideal’ product,” she says, adding that she understands the technology’s appeal. “If these products are capable of analyzing your specific needs and features, they could bring you a solution more adapted to your real needs.”TroveSkin, for example, encourages you to take a daily selfie so you can follow how your skin is changing over time. I could log in throughout the day to let the app know how I was feeling, how long I slept, how much I exercised, and what I ate throughout the day.Some apps also guess your age depending on your skin’s appearance—what’s known as your “skin age”—with varying degrees of accuracy. TroveSkin, the first app I tried, guessed my age was 23, underestimating it by six years. When I used my laptop camera, Olay’s Skin Advisor correctly guessed I was 29. But when I tested it again using the app on my smartphone, it guessed I was 35.Proven co-founders Ming Zhao and Amy Yuan developed their business in response to their own skin troubles. Before starting Proven, Zhao was working 16-hour days at a private equity job in Hong Kong and “using all kinds of different miracle-promising skin care products, and I felt like nothing made a dent,” she says. “Eventually, someone recommended I see a skin guru to make personalized skin care for me. That was the only time I saw results.”When Zhao met Yuan, a computational physicist, at Stanford University, the duo started building a deep-learning skin care database using scientific studies and consumer testimonials. It now includes more than 8 million consumer reviews, 100,000 skin care products, 20,000 ingredients, and 4,000 scientific journals.Here’s how it works: Customers answer a list of questions about their skin concerns, how their skin reacts to products, and even what they eat. After you complete the quiz, Proven’s machine-learning algorithms scan the database to spit out information about your living environment and lifestyle and how they affect your skin and to match you with ingredients. Zhao says the company partnered with a dermatologist to work on the questionnaire and create the formulations it sells.When I tried the Proven app, I was told I’m not drinking enough water, which is leading to dehydration. Since I live in Dallas-Fort Worth, which has “unhealthy air quality,” Proven told me I’m exposed to pollution particles that cause wrinkles and age spots.To address these environmental factors along with my acne-prone, oily skin and hyperpigmentation, Proven suggested a customized three-product routine that includes ingredients like sulfur (to deal with acne), hyaluronic acid (to retain moisture), and mandelic acid (to exfoliate the skin for a smoother, clearer appearance). The three products cost $195 for a two-month supply.“Personalization is not just a trend. It’s going to be the future of all consumer products,” Zhao tells me. “With Proven, our products are tailored to you [based on] genetics, skin concerns, and environmental factors.”I ask dermatologist Fayne Frey if personalization apps are the future of skin care. Her response is a resounding no. “Apps have little if any clinical skill other than programmed, one-size-fits-all algorithms,” she says.Frey takes issue with some of the questions asked by Proven. Most consumers probably don’t know what’s wrong with their skin or how to answer questions about their level of stress, which is subjective, she says.Frey’s other issue with Proven, Skin360, and similar apps is that they lead consumers to purchase the company’s own products. The tech, according to Frey, is more about marketing than about giving people science-backed recommendations — the latter of which could actually be helpful. It’s a “market that’s feeding on people’s insecurity,” she says.Frey is attempting to create a nonbiased database herself. In 2014, she launched the website and product selector FryFace. Based on a few questions, consumers can find skin care options. She doesn’t make any money from the site and adds products manually. In her opinion, there are plenty of products already on the market that work just fine.Dermatologist Dee Anna Glaser, of St. Louis University, says that if A.I. apps get people thinking about taking better care of their skin, that’s not a bad thing. Unfortunately, A.I.-backed skin care apps are not cheap. For $195, Proven’s customized kit includes one cleanser, one sunscreen, and one night cream. It costs $50 to get Neutrogena’s Skin360 app and the magnifying lens required to scan your skin. Olay’s Skin Advisor appears to be one of the few free-to-use A.I.-driven apps currently available.“All of these A.I. devices lead you to buy some kind of skin care. And if it’s working, that’s great,” Glaser says. “But what I see at my practice is that patients spend hundreds of dollars [on products that don’t work], and then they’ve delayed the opportunity to get better. People with true skin problems would be better served more quickly, accurately, and less expensively” if they went to see a dermatologist.A.I. expert de la Iglesia says there’s another issue: If these apps collect low-quality data (an image that’s too blurry, a question that wasn’t answered properly, or product reviews that are fake), a machine-learning algorithm does not work properly. “I think that the collected data could be of low quality, and so [could] the predictions,” de la Iglesia says.A.I. is making an impact, however, on the detection of skin diseases. Glaser says there are already devices in dermatology offices that use A.I. technology to help doctors detect skin cancer and determine whether a biopsy is needed. As the technology becomes more accurate, it might even be applicable for consumer use.While these apps may provide a good starting point for people who are new to skin care, I wouldn’t use them again unless I was looking to buy a product from the brands that offer them (say, I needed help choosing between different Olay moisturizers). The aim to help consumers select products that are more likely to fix their skin problems is a lofty goal, but in my many years of experimenting, I’ve found which ingredients work for me and which ones don’t — and I’m not sure that an app can be better at selecting products than I am.When my parents told me we were moving to America, I pictured a carousel. Special, beguiling; a place where nothing bad ever happened. In my head, it was like a still photograph of something in motion. The lights were a warm streak of yellow, and the painted horses looked like they were dancing. I was nearly six, and the idea of flying across the world to a place like that was thrilling.This was the spirited creation of a child, sure, but one that had roots somewhere. I don’t know exactly where it came from, but I suspect that the allure of this country — the mythical American dream — is so relentlessly propagated that it managed to worm its way into the unvarnished brain of a small child. It remained fixed in my mind for a long time. Mostly, I leaned on it when my friends disparaged the country they were born in. “You’re lucky,” I used to insist. “People give up everything to make it to America.”And then I grew up, and the carousel broke down. It happened in fits, punctuated by national crises and a rising awareness of my own privilege here and all it afforded me and the position of others relative to me. It happened when I read books and essays, when I made friends, when I witnessed cruelty and did nothing to help. It happened as I filled in the lines of my own personhood, and I began to question what, exactly, personhood meant here in America and who was allowed to have it.The weight of how much the ideal had disintegrated settled itself between my shoulder blades on the day I became an American. My naturalization ceremony — held this past October, on a Friday too warm for the bright-red coat I wore — was ostensibly a salute to more than 140 immigrants. It was also an ominous celebration of nationalistic assimilation and vaguely funereal: I pledged my loyalty to America and left behind the place I came from. There would be no more slipping out of my Americanness when it suited me. The country’s sins were now indistinguishable from my own.Perversely, becoming a citizen presented me with a sense of security. That was one of the reasons I chose this moment in time to become a citizen, after all — not out of some patriotic desire to submerge myself in the American swamp, but because the swamp offered more protection than the shore.People often seem disappointed by this explanation. “That’s why you’re doing this now?” they’d ask, hoping, perhaps, that I was motivated by a sense of civic duty, or that I had gone crazy. But the simple answer, and the one I was loath to give, was that I wanted to feel safe. I wanted proof that I belonged here. I no longer wanted to be able to slip out of my Americanness — not because I considered it to be part of me, but because I didn’t want someone else to decide when it would happen next. Before I took this step, unease was at a constant simmer beneath the surface. My life was not entirely within my control; someone out there could make it hell if they wanted to.And yet the truth is that, growing up, I was always privileged enough to not worry about becoming an American citizen. It never felt like a necessity, and my parents waited almost as long as I did. We moved here because my father got a good job, which meant our immigration status was always relatively safe, and because I was a kid, my parents jumped through all the hoops for me. Until now, I never had to reckon with any of this.It also became a point of secret, mulish pride. I didn’t want to give in. Doing so felt like letting go of some essential part of me — the part that wasn’t from here, that never felt wholly at home, that had always considered herself stuck between two worlds. Citizenship seemed like it would be a fundamental, irreparable transformation of my identity. Maybe I would welcome that someday, but I wanted to be sure about it. Instead, I did it because I felt like I had no other choice. I did it so that if I ever moved away, I had a way back. I did it out of a vague sense of unease, which is, bitterly, the most perfectly American thing of all.It’s also ludicrous. I’m white. My accent is so neutral that I could be a virtual assistant. I’m fluent in Americana. My path to citizenship didn’t involve fleeing violence or persecution. I didn’t risk my life or my family’s life. I haven’t lived in fear of deportation. I don’t get stopped at airports, and on the street, and in my home, and asked why I’m here. I blend in. And so it feels fraudulent to say that I want to be safe. It feels callous to boil down the prodigious step of becoming a citizen to flinty practicality and curdled cynicism when other people give everything they have to make it through a naturalization ceremony.A few weeks ago, a letter arrived in the mail from a county official — the same man who presided over my ceremony — congratulating me on becoming a citizen. He also took pains to castigate those who “take shortcuts,” as if that was a decision born out of laziness and duplicity rather than circumstance and necessity. I wanted to set the letter on fire. I know citizenship isn’t meaningless. I know it’s not just an empty token of appreciation from Uncle Sam. But it’s difficult to reconcile the practiced reverence with which it is treated with the feeling that I got lucky — because of where I came from, because of what I look like, because of what I sound like.These days, I try to remember the carousel. I try to parse what it meant to me and why it stayed with me for so long, even after it became clear that it was nothing more than a fantasy. I lean on what it represented — opportunity, promise, equity — and choose to see that in the things around me. There’s a boy in a tuxedo beaming in front of a massive American flag as someone in his family becomes a citizen. There are people who organize, agitate, and protest. There are candidates running for office who reject the notion of cruelty as the bedrock of policy. There’s the thrill I felt after voting today for the very first time in my life.I want to think about these things. Maybe that’s the migrant mentality: a conscious choice to believe that your new home is better. The sting of leaving the old one behind would be too much to bear otherwise.But then I come back to the catastrophes, recent and older, all with different shapes but the same rotten filling. Brett Kavanaugh, Pittsburgh, Charlottesville, Iraq, September 2008, Ferguson, November 2016. The horrific absurdity of listening to a tall man in a gray suit drone on about how immigrants reflect American values while the current administration punishes and humiliates immigrants of color at every turn. I get angry at myself for believing, again and again, in a myth.I wonder sometimes if this is just what it means to be American, this back-and-forth, this tension between what you hope for and what you know, deep down, to be true. Maybe it gets easier once you learn to walk the tightrope between these two poles, without flailing, without letting one or the other subsume you. I hope so.An estimated 6 million Americans couldn’t vote on Tuesday because they were convicted felons. About half of those people had finished their sentences and left prison. They still weren’t allowed to vote. Roughly half of those Americans — about 1.5 million — live in Florida.Disenfranchisement in the United States has taken on many forms in recent years: voter ID laws and restrictions on early voting are just two examples. But restricting the voting rights of felons is one of the oldest practices on the books. And nowhere has it been more widespread than in Florida, possibly the one state where the phrase “every vote counts” consistently rings true. (See: Bush v. Gore, 2000; Obama v. Romney, 2012; Trump v. Clinton, 2016; Scott v. Nelson, 2018.)But Florida’s ex-felons got a reprieve on Tuesday. Almost two-thirds of residents who could and did vote on Nov. 6 elected to restore voting rights for those who couldn’t. It was one of the most far-reaching statewide results in this year’s midterms, one that could have lasting effects on how future elections play out in this pivotal state.“It’s a really important milestone just in the sheer number of people who will be re-enfranchised,” says Marc Meredith, an associate professor of political science at the University of Pennsylvania who studies felon voting rights.A dozen states deny voting rights to some or all convicts, even after they’ve fulfilled their prison, parole, or probation sentences, according to a 2016 report by The Sentencing Project, a non-profit criminal justice advocacy group. But Florida was by far the most prominent offender. Its disenfranchised felon population was the country’s largest, thanks to the state’s sizable number of prisoners and its relatively harsh sentencing guidelines.“Florida was the elephant in the room,” says Christopher Uggen, a University of Minnesota sociologist and a co-author of Locked Out: Felon Disenfranchisement and American Democracy.While the state has one of the biggest prison populations in the U.S., it has also convicted a disproportionate number of people of color. White people still make up the largest share of felons in Florida. But among African-Americans in the state, 20 percent have been disenfranchised because of a felony conviction compared with 9.2 percent of the overall population.Florida’s voting restrictions stem from some of the darker shadows of the Reconstruction Era, when Southern states often looked for ways to suppress black voters. In 1868, Florida’s Constitution took away felons’ right to vote, even making a crime like petty larceny a felony.Over the last couple decades, felons have unsuccessfully used class-action lawsuits to try to change the law in the court system. In 2007, Gov. Charlie Crist, then a Republican now a Democrat, revised the state’s clemency process and restored more than 150,000 residents’ voting rights. But his successor, Republican Rick Scott, dialed back that process. Under Scott’s administration, only 3,200 saw their voting rights restored.That left few options for Florida’s ex-felons other than going directly to the enfranchised themselves. “It was a tremendous victory,” Uggen says, especially for people “who had older criminal records that may date from the ’70s, ’80s, and ’90s who were really shut out of the electorate.”The result is a historic win for civil rights activists working to reform the criminal justice system, one that’s often stacked against people of color. But what does it mean for Florida’s future elections?For the last two decades, it seemed impossible to hold an election without Florida’s races being decided by the slimmest of margins. Look at Tuesday’s race for the U.S. Senate between Democrat Bill Nelson and Republican Rick Scott. As of Wednesday, the difference in the race was just 30,000 votes. Adding 1.5 million ex-felons to the rolls has the potential to sway those kinds of close races. But whether that happens will ultimately depend on two questions: Which way would they lean politically? And will they vote?Uggen estimates that 80 to 90 percent of Florida’s black ex-felons likely lean Democratic based on how similar populations have voted in other states and that the remaining 75 percent of the total ex-felon population breaks down evenly between Democratic and Republican voters. Uggen points to one study he conducted with NYU sociologist Jeffrey Manza, which estimated that Florida’s ex-felons would likely have voted for Democrat Al Gore over Republican George W. Bush in the 2000 presidential election by a margin of at least two to one, easily making up the 537-vote difference and giving Gore the state, and ultimately, the White House.Another study Uggen points to is a national survey from 2002, which found that “Democratic candidates would have received about 7 out of every 10 votes cast by the felons and ex-felons in 14 of the last 15 U.S. Senate election years.”“I wouldn’t say it’s a big victory for the Democratic party or portray it in partisan terms, but on balance, I think the outcome [of the ballot measure] will likely tilt Democratic to some degree,” Uggen says.The more pressing question might be whether ex-felons will vote at all. According to studies by the University of Pennsylvania’s Meredith and Harvard PhD candidate Michael Morse, in six other states that recently relaxed their voting rights laws, ex-felon turnout ranged from just 8 percent to 14 percent.Uggen, however, says he believes turnout could be higher in Florida because so many ex-felons have been integrated into society over decades and are more invested in their communities than newly released prisoners.Assuming turnout numbers and political preference follows similar patterns, Uggen says it’s reasonable to believe that if ex-felons had voted this week, they would have swayed the election toward Nelson, the Democratic incumbent. They could even have had an effect on the governor’s race, which Republican Ron DeSantis led over Democrat Andrew Gillum by 51,000 votes, as of Wednesday.Similarly, Meredith and Morse estimate that of the 1.5 million Floridians now eligible to vote, an estimated 102,000 would vote for Democrats, 54,000 would vote for Republicans, and 40,000 could go either away. The others likely wouldn’t vote.“It is those races that are so close that there could be a recount,” Meredith says. “That’s where re-enfranchisement could matter.”Ring, an Amazon-owned smart doorbell company, wants to help you and your neighbors gossip about “suspicious activity” on your street with a standalone app called Neighbors. The app, which was introduced in May, encourages people to bring the surveillance state home by uploading video clips and publishing reports about neighborhood activities, which are then broadcast to other users and participating police departments.Ring markets Neighbors as a modern version of an old-school neighborhood watch program, encouraging communities to band together to protect one another and combat crime. In a commercial for Neighbors, a pair of greasy would-be package thieves are deterred from their crime after realizing video of them is being broadcast throughout the neighborhood. No cops are called, but a man walking his beagle, who has been alerted to their presence through the Neighbors app, watches the thwarted thieves drive their clunker out of the neighborhood, crime averted.Two things make Neighbors different than similar services like Nextdoor. First is the exclusive focus on crime. Neighbors prohibits posts that aren’t about crime and safety, which means that if you have nothing suspicious to post about, you’re not welcome to post at all. Second is the direct connection Neighbors forges with police. Not only will you and your neighbors be watching your streets through the app — so will the cops. Police departments can join Neighbors, view publicly uploaded videos, and request additional data from Ring for areas “where an incident may have occurred.” Just like traditional neighborhood watch programs, Neighbors will give cops extra eyes on the streets, but instead of reports from block captains, police will get video streams uploaded by the community.Sure, no one wants to feel unsafe walking down the street or in their own home. In theory, introducing a simple, app-based way for individuals to engage in the most well-known crime prevention program in the country seems reasonable. But no one is sure if neighborhood watch programs actually work.Studies on neighborhood watch are rare, and the data indicates that while some communities with neighborhood watch programs experience a drop in crime, others actually see crime spike. Most see little change at all.What is clear is that neighborhood watch is great at violating people’s civil rights, encouraging racial profiling, and annoying neighbors. And these problems are only poised to get worse as high-tech peer-to-peer surveillance increases.Many trace the origin of widespread neighborhood watch programs to the murder of Kitty Genovese in 1964. Genovese was on her way home from work when Walter Mosely stabbed her in the back and dragged her inside, where he attempted to rape her. Eventually, she bled to death. Two weeks later, the New York Times reported that 37 of Genovese’s neighbors had watched the attack and failed to call the police.The reported callousness of Genovese’s neighbors ignited fury across the country, and officials lamented everyone’s apparent disinterest in the safety of their neighbors. Academics coined the term “bystander apathy.”Of course, the details regarding the bystanders to Kitty Genovese’s death turned out to be mostly inaccurate. The Times itself would report, decades later, that “the article grossly exaggerated the number of witnesses and what they had perceived.” Regardless, her murder changed the way Americans view their responsibilities in their neighborhoods — and their connection to the police.Officials wasted little time harnessing the outrage over bystander apathy and implemented the program of quasi–law enforcement groups that would become known as neighborhood watch. Several volunteer groups arose in the early 1970s, from a group in New York who were trained to give eyewitness accounts of crime to an official Neighborhood Watch program developed by the National Sheriffs’ Association (NSA) designed to quickly disseminate information from the police to the community and promote civic engagement.The NSA program was based mainly on controversial research that came out of the Chicago School of Sociology, which advanced the theory that “social disorganization,” or the lack of social control in society, is what leads to crime. Similar to the ideas promoted by “broken windows” policing, the Chicago School thought that cracking down on smaller-scale crimes, with the help of concerned neighbors, could help prevent more serious criminal activity.The general idea with neighborhood watch programs is that citizens can act as extra “eyes and ears” in the community and report crime and suspicious behavior to the police. These programs grew without fanfare for much of the 1980s and ’90s. Police and communities touted the benefits of neighborhood watch, but actual studies were scant and their conclusions unpersuasive. Nonetheless, communities and police continued to start new programs throughout the country until neighborhood watch became the most well-known crime prevention program in the United States.As neighborhood watch programs grew in popularity, so did surveillance technology. CCTV, the first widely used video surveillance tool, gained widespread popularity in the 1980s and ’90s. The video systems allowed cops to magnify their surveillance by feeding video from several different CCTV cameras directly to a bank of monitors overseen by a single person. Business owners and even private citizens enthusiastically installed CCTV systems in the name of crime prevention and personal safety.CCTV — which seems quaint compared to a network of smart doorbells that are technically controlled by a massive e-commerce corporation — was met with harsh backlash from privacy experts, who called it a violation of civil liberties. CCTV owners weren’t concerned. Not yet armed with Wi-Fi and smartphones, they shared their home security bloopers the old-school way: on America’s Funniest Home Videos. It’s a phenomenon continued by Ring, which regularly promotes funny doorbell videos.This turn toward technology-augmented surveillance also provided ample opportunity for government abuse. At the same time that neighbors began to watch each other in the name of public safety, CCTV cameras began to appear, watching us at the bank, the courthouse, and the store. CCTV cameras were installed first by police to monitor select areas, and then increasingly permeated all aspects of the public square.As policing and technology changed, our prison populations boomed, with changes in drug and sentencing policies mandating more and longer sentences. Along with heightened arrest numbers and longer prison sentences, police saw neighborhood watch as an integral part of a war on crime that disproportionately targeted people of color. While white neighborhoods started neighborhood watch programs, black neighborhoods were decimated by overpolicing and incarceration.After 9/11, personal safety and security took on a new urgency. In 2002, the National Sheriffs’ Association joined with the Department of Justice to pivot its program toward national security. Together, they rebranded Neighborhood Watch as USA on Watch, and communities were encouraged to “become active in homeland security” and to “fight against terrorism.” The terrorism-fighting mechanism was mostly limited to encouraging disaster preparedness among neighbors, but the insider/outsider dichotomy present in Neighborhood Watch programs took on new meaning as Islamophobia ran rampant in the wake of the terrorist attacks.Communities, now believing they were responsible for the security of the entire country, began closely surveilling their black and brown neighbors in the name of homeland security and engaged in hate-based violence in the name of retribution for 9/11. The FBI and NYPD took things further, putting entire communities under surveillance for years, using license plate readers and tapping the phones of blocks upon blocks of New Yorkers who lived in predominantly Arab communities.Although it is not clear why, the Department of Justice eventually pulled funding from the USA on Watch program and reverted to its original moniker under the umbrella of the National Sheriffs’ Association. The shift back to the less exciting, nonterrorism-related activities of the average neighborhood watch, however, did not stem the racism that seems to have seeped into most initiatives.While some neighborhood watch programs do nothing more than host monthly police-liaison community meetings, others have adopted the idea and title of neighborhood watch to patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, looking for undocumented migrants, or to stalk the streets on behalf of the KKK, presumably looking for nonwhite residents out after dark. Many of these groups invest heavily in police and military-grade gear, from mobile command centers to high-tech surveillance gadgets.Some of the problems endemic to neighborhood watch groups were thrust front and center in 2012, when neighborhood watch block captain George Zimmerman shot and killed Trayvon Martin in a Florida subdivision. The resulting trial revealed that Zimmerman frequently called the cops to report black men in the neighborhood as part of his neighborhood watch duties. He was eventually found not guilty, and a large part of his defense relied on his role as a protector of the neighborhood.While the Zimmerman trial was happening, neighborhood watch groups were slowly making their way online with the advent of Nextdoor.com, which launched in 2011. Nextdoor was one of the first major websites to actively solicit and distribute crime and safety information to neighborhood users alongside other neighborhood-related content. After a few relatively innocent years of posts about local plumbers and crowdsourced restaurant recommendations, Nextdoor developed a problem: rampant racial profiling. Posts regarding “suspicious” people of color walking down the road, riding their bike, or otherwise existing in public infiltrated the site. White users complained about people of color in their neighborhoods and described suspected perpetrators of crime in unhelpful and racist terms.Nextdoor initially blamed the problem on racist users, but the company eventually set up systems to nudge members away from posting racist content by requiring posters to describe more than the race or ethnicity of suspected wrongdoers. Nextdoor’s solutions were both lauded as innovative and criticized for not doing enough, but no one seemed to question the underlying rationale for peer-to-peer policing in the first place.In fact, Nextdoor’s successes set the stage for other tech companies to enter the market of nosy neighbors. Canary, a home camera system, allows you to sound an alarm or call the police directly from the app’s interface should you detect an intruder while staring at a video stream of your living room. SimpliSafe, a cloud-based home security system that promises to deter criminals from entering your home and promptly reports any alarms or disturbances to the police, had revenue of $38.5 million in 2013, up from $1.4 million in 2010. In 2018, a private equity and venture firm took control of SimpliSafe in a deal that valued it at around $1 billion.Flock Safety, a Georgia-based security startup, wants to bypass individuals entirely. Flock cameras, which cost $1,500 per year, are “designed to solve crime” by reading and tracking the license plates on cars driving through the neighborhood, storing video footage, and using “advanced machine learning” to turn video footage into the “key images needed to make an arrest.” Ring has built something of a cult following around videos captured through its motion-sensing video doorbells, which the company encourages users to share on the Ring app and social media.Neighbors is the logical next step — a place where video clips from your doorbells and security cameras are cannibalized into content for neighbors to scroll through and police to analyze. But Neighbors is also a glimpse into what seems like an inevitable future where neighborhood streets become a high-tech panopticon and neighbors spy on neighbors.Tech companies are successfully convincing us that personal and public safety mandates a reduction in privacy and that policing our neighbors is the mark of a good citizen. But the decades of American jurisprudence about privacy are not merely the stuff of academic debate: They are a stark record of the abuses that arise when the state has unlimited access to the particulars of our lives. As use of private surveillance and high-tech neighborhood watch initiatives expand, we will have to grapple with what exactly we are willing to sacrifice in the name of safety. Because it isn’t just your neighbors the state wants to see from your video doorbell—it’s also you.Update: Following the publication of this story, a Ring representative emailed the following statement:My Mother’s Day was defined by a blue Rubbermaid storage tub sitting ominously in the middle of my closet. It had been there for days. My husband had brought it down because it contained the gift bags and tissue paper necessary to wrap his mother’s gift and mine.The gift he needed to wrap for me? A necklace I hadn’t asked for and didn’t want. For Mother’s Day, I had requested just one thing: a housecleaning service. The gift, for me, was not so much the cleaning itself but the fact that, for once, I would not be in charge of the household office work. I would not have to make calls, get multiple quotes, research and vet each service, arrange payment, and schedule the appointment. The real gift I wanted was to be relieved of the emotional labor of a single task that had been nagging at the back of my mind.The day before Mother’s Day, my husband called a single service, decided it was too expensive, and vowed to clean the bathrooms himself. What I had really wanted was for him to ask friends on Facebook for a recommendation or call four or five more services — do the emotional labor I would have done if the job had fallen to me.Instead, after presenting me with the necklace, he stole away to deep-clean the bathrooms, leaving me to care for our children as the rest of the house fell into total disarray. In his mind, he was doing what I had most wanted — giving me sparkling bathrooms without me having to do it myself. Which is why he was frustrated when I ungratefully passed by, not looking at his handiwork as I put away his shoes, shirt, and socks that had been left on the floor. That was when I stumbled, again, over the Rubbermaid storage tub and reached my breaking point.For days, it had impeded me every time I needed to toss clothes in the hamper or pick out something to wear. It was shoved, kicked, rolled onto its side, but it wasn’t put away. I couldn’t return it to the high shelf where it belonged without enormous effort and the aid of a kitchen chair, but that wasn’t the real problem. It was obvious that the box was in the way and needed to be put back. It would have been easy for him to just reach up and put it away, but instead he had stepped around it, willfully ignoring it for two days. It was up to me to tell him that he should put away something he had taken out in the first place. If I wanted it put away, I could simply ask my husband to do so. He was easily strong enough and tall enough to do it in mere seconds. And therein was the real problem. It was a simple and obvious task that required minimal effort for him. So why hadn’t he done it? Why did I always have to ask?It was a question that led to a tear-filled fight as I tried to get my husband to grasp why being the household manager who notices problems, delegates solutions, and has to ask in a singsong voice to get anyone to comply is exhausting. I was angry and completely spent. I couldn’t quite wrap my mind around all the things I was upset about in the heat of the moment, and certainly not in a way that would make sense. I didn’t have the energy left to explain the mental load or emotional labor to him in a way he would understand or accept. I didn’t want to walk that fine line of protecting his feelings in order to get my point across. So instead, I wrote it down — all the struggles and frustrations that had led to that mess of a moment — and published it as a feature article in Harper’s Bazaar.The essay quickly went viral. Apparently, many women could relate to the imbalance of emotional labor. Men are pitching in with household chores more than ever —fathers reported spending 10 hours a week on household chores in 2016, compared with four hours in 1965. But the fact remains that in heterosexual couples, the woman is usually the one doing the emotional labor of planning playdates, reading the school handbook, noticing which pantry items are running low and putting them on the grocery list, choosing what to bring to the neighborhood potluck… the list goes on.When I wrote the article and shared it with Rob, I was essentially drawing a line in the sand. I was saying, as clearly as I knew how, that we couldn’t go on without him taking his share of responsibility in our life together. It was uncomfortable, difficult, and, quite frankly, even harder than having a blow-up fight about emotional labor every few months. Implementing a shared standard that worked for both of us meant that both of us had to show up and struggle through our individual hangups together. I had to face my perfectionism, my desire for control, the social conditioning that tied my worth to my ability to perform emotional labor. He had to learn these skills for the first time. He had to face the ways he had unintentionally hurt me by ignoring emotional labor for so long. He had to confront the social conditioning telling him that emotional labor — anything that fosters connection to his whole life — is not for him. It was a whole lot of unpacking to do to figure out things like how to best handle laundry and toddler meltdowns as a team.I was commissioned to write a book about the topic, which quickly changed my life from that of a part-time freelancer to a full-time writer. Around the same time, my husband became unemployed. As my work with the book picked up, his job search hit a wall. He had spent hours upon hours applying for jobs, almost none of which were panning out, as we headed into the holidays. It was time for the pendulum to swing into his corner, and I told him so in no uncertain terms. I was ready for a trading-places scenario — for once, I was going to be the one who filled the role of ideal worker while he shouldered the emotional labor. I explained that having the house be a total disaster when I was working wasn’t something that I could overlook or put out of my mind for a few hours. I couldn’t write with a clear head if I knew a pile of unknown horrors was waiting for me on the kitchen table. It stressed me out knowing that once one shift ended, another was waiting for me. I also couldn’t have him come talk over meal plans with me while I was in the middle of work, or ask any other questions about what to do next while I was on the clock. I needed him to do some real emotional labor — and that meant figuring it out without my guidance and delegation. It was a steep learning curve, but one we both knew he was prepared to master.He did exceptionally well taking on the brunt of emotional labor. Without my constant micromanaging, he was able to find his confidence and start feeling competent in this new role. I still asked if he had checked this or done that, but after a few weeks of realizing the answer was always yes, I stopped worrying that he needed my guidance and focused on my work like I said I would. Rob became the only one checking homework and making sure school lunches got packed and meal plans were made and the kids were picking up their belongings (and he was picking up his own). He wrote all 40 of our Christmas cards when I was too burned out to do them. He was the only one calling and texting his parents for most of the month. He reminded me of things that were on the calendar, even when it was on the wall a few feet from my desk. I hadn’t planned on off-loading so much to him; it simply happened. I would end my work hours and fall onto the couch to read more research books while Rob was the one making dinner and then cleaning up afterward.Then I noticed one afternoon, when I took my lunch break, that he seemed really far off. He was there but not really there. I figured I knew what was wrong — that the job hunt was getting to him or he was suffering an identity crisis, but that wasn’t at all what he described when I asked him what was wrong.“I feel like there’s something I need to be doing, something I’ve forgotten, and I can’t figure out what it is.”He had sent our daughter to school with freshly laundered bedding for her cot, packed a lunch and snack for our son, done the laundry, and cleaned the house, and he had reached a lull in his day. There wasn’t anything, at least not anything important, that he was forgetting. He was bogged down by the mental load, though, and couldn’t seem to think straight. It was a feeling I knew well: the nagging sense that I couldn’t sit down or relax for a moment because there was always something that needed to be done. It’s the creeping anxiety that gnaws at you when you’re the only one carrying the mental load for the family. You’re afraid of something falling through the cracks because you’re so tapped out from trying to make sure nothing falls through the cracks. The anxiety wasn’t a revelation to me, but the fact that it was happening to Rob and not me was eye-opening. This wasn’t what I wanted for either of us. When I examined where we were at the moment, with me devoted to my work and nothing else, I also found myself feeling untethered to my life. When I was solely focused on working, letting everything else fall away, I was irritable and unhappy much of the time. There was a distinct emptiness when I wasn’t tending to any emotional labor at all. My life no longer felt rounded and whole. Neither of us was living in a way that made us feel fulfilled.“It takes trial and error,” writes Betty Friedan in The Second Stage, “to work out the practicalities and the real tradeoffs, with men and women now sharing work and home responsibilities, instead of replacing the dreary realities of one with fantasies of the other.” In other words, it takes a lot of conscious effort to get past the fantasy that the grass is always greener on the other side and start tending the soil where we are. We have to figure out how to balance emotional labor through trial and error. We have to accept that we aren’t going to get it right the first time no matter how clear we are in our intentions. I understood the lesson in theory but was still learning it firsthand.There is a big camp of people (let’s be real, men) who don’t think shared standards should exist. I have my standards; you have yours. If my standards bother you, you can go the extra mile to bring it up to your standard or you can learn to live with it. It’s not my fault that you can’t handle the mess. It’s not hurting anyone; it’s just your personal preference. Why should I have to adopt your standard? Why should I have to change? I’ve heard this argument over and over again. It’s not a problem of my initiative. It’s a problem with your standard.It’s a pretty cruel argument. It argues that one person should either have to suffer or put in a disproportionate amount of work because the other person is too lazy to compromise. It implies that the work we have put into creating a life that keeps everyone comfortable and happy has no value — that we create our standards without purpose or meaning. It’s an argument which states that our standards don’t matter, that our feelings don’t matter, that our work doesn’t matter. When our identity is so wrapped up in emotional labor, it’s an argument that says you don’t matter.This is why emotional labor is such a minefield of hurt and resentment. One person’s arbitrary standard is another person’s lifeline. There’s a huge disconnect when our partners do not understand why we do what we do in regard to emotional labor. It’s not only how we keep our lives running smoothly; it’s how we strive to find happiness. What women seek through their high standards isn’t merely perfectionism — it’s the idea of freedom. When we are drawn into the comparison game, when we feel the pressure to “have it all,” when we try every organizational hack in the book, it’s because we’ve been led to believe that, just around the bend, we will find peace. We will find happiness. We will find the life hack that will finally ease our exhaustion, because we don’t believe we can find that relief in our partnerships.Yet after talking with hundreds of women and seeing the dynamic shift in my own relationship, I can see the lie that perfectionism is selling. There is no plateau of perfection I can reach that will help me care for everyone around me, keeping them comfortable and happy, without becoming utterly depleted. I can’t do it all. No one can. Instead, we can evaluate what parts of our emotional labor are intrinsically important to us. We can soul-search for our real priorities — not the ones that have been predetermined for us, but the ones that stem from us. Then we can do what we do best and rearrange our lives accordingly, with care and attention to detail, not for the benefit of others but for ourselves. We can find the relief we’re searching for by setting boundaries, taking responsibility for ourselves, and surrounding ourselves with people, and especially partners, who do the same.When Rob took on more emotional labor, I became happier and more satisfied with our relationship, which made him more apt to keep doing it. When we were both happy and sharing the responsibility of our life together, emotional labor wasn’t such a drag anymore. In fact, we both enjoyed it, because doing emotional labor together made us feel more in tune with each other. More understood. We were no longer shying away from conversations about what was and was not working, because we were past the point of keeping score or trying to win when it came to emotional labor. We were able to trust each other to do our fair share and learn from each other as we aimed to find what shared responsibility and standards would look like for us.What truly brought us to a balance where we both felt comfortable was the fact that both of us were finally doing the necessary work to understand each other. We were actively working our empathy muscles as we looked at each other’s life experiences. Rob was listening to and processing my lived experiences as I laid them out for him. He was no longer responding with defensiveness, but showing an understanding that led naturally to action. He was giving me what I genuinely wanted — not perfectly folded towels or clean countertops like I thought I wanted, but a partner who truly saw me.The midterms were a feminist triumph: Tuesday was dominated by wins for women — women of color in particular — leading to a record-breaking number of women who will be serving in Congress. There was also a slew of notable firsts, including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (the youngest woman ever elected to Congress), Sharice Davids and Deb Haaland (the first Native American women), and Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar (the first Muslim women). As Cecile Richards put it, “women were the heroes of this election.”Some, however, were the villains.While women were a driving force behind many of the Democrats’ successes, some were also responsible for some of the party’s major losses. After all, it was white female Republicans who brought wins home for Ted Cruz, Ron DeSantis and, possibly, Brian Kemp. Despite efforts to reach across the aisle, the majority of white women who voted for Donald Trump in 2016 have not realized the error of their ways, and likely never will. The hope of changing these key voters’ minds by pointing out the craven bigotry of the GOP or the president’s distinct lack of moral compass was, and remains, a fantasy.It’s time to dispense with the myth of American sisterhood. Women are not a monolith, and the women who support Trumpian Republicans — in the face of horrific injustices — will not change.If they were unmoved by traumatized children being ripped from their mothers’ arms, there is little hope of reaching them on a moral or maternal level. If they are not disgusted by the President’s racist and misogynist speech they are not likely to be swayed by arguments about civility and equality. If the women who are voting for Republicans can look at what is happening to this country and the most marginalized people in it — including themselves — and continue to support them, it may be time to write them off as a lost cause.The truth is that white Republican women are not waiting for their minds to be changed by well-meaning feminists; they are happy to vote for Trump. As author Rebecca Traister has written, “White women, who enjoy proximal power from their association with white men, have often served as the white patriarchy’s most eager foot soldiers.” (Brittney Cooper and Elizabeth Gillespie McRae’s work is invaluable on this front.)I used to believe in spending political energy and capital on changing these women’s minds; I suspect many other women still do. In the run-up to the election, there were think pieces about evangelical women, for example, who could not square their beliefs with Trump’s cruel policies and bombast. I also know plenty of white women who try to chip away at the beliefs of their Trump-supporting female family members, hoping that if they say the right thing or debate convincingly enough, their loved one might see the light.I admire such efforts and imagine it occasionally works. But those who believe it’s possible to flip female Trump supporters on a mass scale are overlooking how unwilling these women are to give up the benefits that white supremacy and patriarchy have bestowed upon them.Instead of focusing on women who have long shown us where their loyalties lay, Democrats are better served by continuing the grassroots organizing we saw by some of the winning women this week: Reaching out to voters who have been abandoned by the left or working to enfranchise voters whose rights have been suppressed.So I’m still counting this week as a feminist win. America’s political representation is one step closer to looking like Americans, and there’s no going back from the wave of activism and democratic participation that led to this point. But it wasn’t only women — and definitely not all women — who got us here. And it won’t be all women who continue the fight.It has become my habit to check social media when I first wake up, a consequence of this modern age. I wasn’t sleeping well, so this morning I checked my phone around 5 a.m., expecting to see continued analysis of the midterm elections and maybe a charming news item about Cardi B. I…A runny nose or cough are normal symptoms during the fall, but this year doctors in the United States and Canada are reporting an escalation of symptoms among a small but notable number of kids. One day children have a cold, and the next they’re experiencing polio-like paralysis. It’s not the first time this has happened, either.The condition is called Acute Flaccid Myelitis, or AFM, and it’s a rare disorder that impacts a person’s nervous system. Over the last couple of months, a rise in AFM cases among kids has puzzled doctors. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says that there have been 219 cases reported in 2018 thus far, and 80 cases confirmed in the U.S. The Public Health Agency of Canada reported that there were a combined 44 cases under investigation or confirmed. Currently, 90 percent of the people affected are children under the age of 18.Clusters of these symptoms appear around flu season. In the fall of both 2014 and 2016, there were similar reports of these inexplicable cases. While there are several theories about the cause, much remains unknown about AFM.“The problem with this condition is [that] to some extent there’s more questions than answers,” says Dr. Jeremy Friedman, an associate pediatrician-in-chief at The Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, who is treating several children with the mysterious paralysis. “In this particular cluster, we’re talking about a dozen cases in a condition which we normally see a few times a year.”Here’s everything you should know.This is the hardest question to answer. The ambiguous nature of AFM comes from the lack of evidence to explain its cause. The periodical nature of the illness offers some clues, according to Friedman. The virus has historically spiked in the late summer and early fall. Right now, doctors are homing in on a group of viruses called enteroviruses.In previous cases, doctors combatting clusters of AFM in 2014 and 2106 have suspected a strain of enterovirus called D68. Enteroviruses are in the same family as polioviruses, and have no vaccine or specific treatment. This means that patients need to wait out the course of the disease.This year, the link is not as clear, says Friedman. “We have seen a few [people] test positive for enterovirus, but only one has tested positive for enterovirus D68,” he says. “That particular strain of enterovirus does not seem to be as big a feature as it perhaps was in 2014.”Also stymieing the search for a solution is the unprecedented nature of the disease. Friedman believes a viral cause is still a strong theory, but more research is needed.The disease affects the body’s nervous system through damage to the spinal cord. Coinciding inflammation in different regions of the spinal cord causes a range of paralysis-related symptoms. “Depending on what part of the spinal cord is affected, you might see an arm that’s paralyzed, you might see a leg that’s paralyzed, and you might see both legs,” says Friedman.Doctors have been able to isolate viruses in the noses of the sick children, but have not actually been able to find evidence of enterovirus in the spinal fluid of affected patients. According to Friedman, this could be a sign that children’s immune systems could be to blame for some of the symptoms they’re experiencing.“It makes it seem a bit more likely that it’s not the virus infection that’s causing the symptoms per se, but it’s more related to the body’s immune response, that’s triggered by the viral infection, that might be causing the symptoms,” he says.There’s currently no cure for AFM, but doctors can alleviate its symptoms. Treatment strategies are different based on what a person is experiencing. Currently, doctors use physical therapy in combination with intravenous anti-inflammatory medication to reduce the damage on the spinal cord. But Friedman told Medium that some children still need other, “more sophisticated” treatments to try and help with immune response.While some children appear to be improving more rapidly than in previous years’ outbreaks, some will require more intensive treatments. With our current understanding of AFM, predicting individual outcomes has proven to be very challenging.“I think that when one counsels families, one has to be really honest and transparent about the fact that there really isn’t enough experience with this condition to accurately predict how each individual case is going to play out,” Friedman says.Most of the kids currently affected by AFM have begun to recover or are already recovered, with a few exceptions, says Friedman. Since the initial news of the Toronto outbreak in October, the number of cases has not grown dramatically.“I would say that I think the cluster of cases that we’ve seen at SickKids seems to have slowed down,” Friedman says. “And really, we haven’t seen a lot of activity over the last week at all.”But there is still work to do. The CDC and Public Health Agency of Canada will continue to investigate the epidemiological aspects of the illness — or the larger picture details of how the disease is transmitted in a community. There are also coordinated efforts by doctors and researchers who are treating the disease on the front lines. “There is, in Canada, a group of pediatric neurologists that are sharing all the cases that are being seen across Canada, to pool whatever information they have to try and sort of maximize the learning that can be extracted from this experience,” Friedman says.The best ways to reduce the risk of AFM are still under investigation, but the CDC recommends that people wash their hands frequently, as it’s one of the best ways to avoid getting sick and spreading disease.